Whāia te iti kahurangi ki te tūohu koe me he maunga teitei
“Seek the treasure you value most dearly:
if you bow your head, let it be to a lofty mountain”
North Island Stanmore Bay
Jan. 1 Tuesday
We woke late and had tea and coffee on the porch. After everyone was awake,
we headed down to the water. The deep sugar sand beach had great swimming.
We enjoyed the waves and took some much-needed time to just unwind and chill.
Everything prior to leaving had been very stressful with all of the last minute details
we were just exhausted. I remember what my friend Patricia said to me… “Be gentle
with yourself it’s a huge journey”. So, we all vowed to take it easy for the first 24 hours.
The temperature at this time of the year in the North Island is a high of 80 and low of
60 mostly every day. In the South Island, it’s more like a high of 60 and a low of 50
most days. We had been warned by everyone to be very careful of the sun here.
Apparently, NZ has a huge hole in the atmosphere above it. The ozone or
atmospheric gases found mainly in the upper atmosphere protect Earth from the
harmful rays of the sun. The ozone layer forms a natural screen that absorbs most of
the ultraviolet radiation from sunlight. Although the hole moves and was not created
by NZ, they get to pay the high price until it moves once again. This is incredibly ironic
because NZ has some of the strictest environmental regulations in the world. As a
result, the sun index here is between 9-12 minutes before burn. Everywhere you go
you need to protect yourself with either layers of light clothing or gobs of sunscreen.
One of the great safeguards of the UV rays are the massive Pohutukawa trees. They
provide ample shade along the beaches so that people don’t get fried. They have
huge branches which extend low to the ground. The Kiwis call it the “Christmas tree”
(remember Christmas occurs here in summer) because it blooms around Christmas.
They call the Pohutukawa this because it produces a brilliant display of red flowers.
After exploring the beach as far as it extended in both directions our jet lag started
to kick in. We headed back to the house for showers and to celebrate New Year’s
in Michigan Time. Remember there is an 18-hour time difference. We watched the
ball drop in NY which was 6pm for us the following day. We said our hurrahs and
decided to watch old family videos of Elijah and Ari from 10 years ago when we lived
in Scotland. It was cathartic! We had appetizers for dinner and went to bed early.

Images

