Jan 10 Thursday
North Island - Whangarei/Parua Bay
We left Stanmore Bay and headed north about 4-hours to Parua Bay in Whangarei,
Northland, NZ. This the https://www.vrbo.com/20032988ha to our second house.
Kauri Villas had breathtaking views overlooking Parua Bay. It was a short drive to the
Whangarei harbor. Whangarei Heads are well known for their many walking tracks.
Something special and unique was around every corner of this coastal paradise.
Rugged remnants of ancient volcanoes rise from the sea in majestic peaks. The
Whangarei Heads (peninsula) offers spectacular views of Mount Manaia. Our
cottage “Kohinui Cottage” was a perfect base for us to explore Whangarei Township
and the Tutukaka Coast. The cottage was set upon a working sheep farm with a large
bed and breakfast type place with various cottages. Our hosts, Pauline and Buster
were very friendly.
As soon as we arrived, we unpacked and quickly went out to see the sheep. After
observing them for a while we noticed that down the hill there was a baby lamb who
had his head stuck in the barbed wire. I quickly ran to get help from Pauline. She
promptly went to the little lamb (named Bertie) and helped him escape. From that
time on - we became Bertie’s protectors. You see… Bertie was a loner and anytime
he would try to get close to the other sheep they would butt him away. If he even
went to the water, they would knock him over. We went into the gated pasture to
console him. When we did the other sheep acted put-out that we were giving Bertie
the attention. Poor Bertie!
After the “Bertie Conflagration” we headed across the pasture which lead to a hiking
path through the rainforest. That’s when we met Bertie’s friends two cats named Lilly
Lu and Bobcat. They truly were his friends. They would try to wrestle with him and

followed him around. He seemed to love it! Lilly Lu and Bobcat came to visit us at
our cottage every morning and every evening. People in NZ do not have screens on
their windows, and they usually leave French doors or slider wide open. So, the
cuddly cats appeared often to get a good pet or a sweet snuggle.
The “bush walk” was a steep descent down the precarious trail. We had to use tree
trunks to hold on to as we went down through the switch backs. Once we came to
the bottom we were greeted by a beautiful little river and a lovely waterfall. The
evening sun was brilliant as it shone brightly on the ferns and vines. It was magical!
It felt like every ray and beam was perfectly aligned for us to witness the magnitude
of this extreme beauty. We felt like we had just plopped ourselves down on the set
of Jurassic Park. On the way up, we had to use ropes to get back to the top. Whew!
What a journey it was!
By the time we returned the sun was sitting low on the horizon. We were super sweaty
and tired, so we took a dip in the pool. It was so refreshing! We all slept great that
night for sure.

Images

