**North Island – Whangarei / Parua Bay**

Today was the day that Jeff and I had been waiting for. We had set
up a reservation to go scuba diving at the best underwater sight in NZ,
Poor Knights Islands. We were so excited to learn that Elijah and Ari
could go with us - they would snorkel, and we would dive. We left early
in the morning to go to the meeting place in Tutukaka. Jacques
Cousteau described Poor Knights Islands as one of the top ten dives in
the world. There are the remains of ancient volcanoes beneath the
waves where the ocean has hollowed out the rock to create a web of
underwater caves, tunnels, and above the water cliffs. It’s truly a
stunning environment to explore. Because of the incredible biodiversity and the historical significance the keys that are sacred to the
Maori.

We left Tutukaka and we boarded a boat named nothing other than
“The Calypso” of course. We joined about 20 other divers from all over
the world. We traveled about 10 km out into the open sea. We
entered the largest sea cave in the world. Eventually, we arrived at
the two islands we would be diving at; “Brady’s Corner” and “Travis
Rocks.” We first did a short tour around several of the islands as we learned some of their history. We also passed through a couple
“tunnels” – amazing!

Due to the fact that the water is always very cold there, we had to
wear 7mil suits. Usually we dive with 3mils, so we truly felt like stay-puffmarshmallow men. It was incredibly uncomfortable, but we soldiered
through. Before we geared up with our tanks, BC’s, regs, and weights,
we were given very strict instructions that under NO circumstances can
we go up onto the island.

The entire island is sacred, and no human has set foot on it since 1823.
They were once inhabited by Maori. The chief Tatua led his warriors on
a fighting exhibition. While they were away, a slave from another tribe
escaped and swam to his key to see chief Hikutu and let him know that
the island had been left undefended. They attacked. The remaining
women and children were captured (many jumped off the cliffs for
fear of being enslaved themselves). When chief Tatua returned his fiveyear-old son was left hiding in a cave, and everyone was gone. Since
then it has been promised that no human will ever step on its ground
again. The fine is $75,000 or up to 4 years in prison. Yikes!
Our scuba guide was a young lady named Rose. Rose was a Kiwi
transplant (originally from the Netherlands) who talked with a quiet
voice and was super chill. Our captain was named of course none
other than, Jack. Jack was Maori. Because it was a double tank dive
that means that we do one dive for about 50 minutes. Then, after an
hour we go down for the second dive which lasts about 45 minutes.
The first dive is usually the deeper dive. We first dropped anchor at
“Brady’s Corner”. We saw a huge array of marine life amongst endless
beds of sea kelp. Sometimes it was as if we were lost in a kelp forest.
The visibility was clear. We saw a moray eel, coral fish, sponge
gardens, sea urchins as big as basketballs, and a various myriad of
countless fish including; morse code fish, trigger fish, golden snappers,
trevally snappers, and scorpion fish. 

Once our tank’s PSI reached the “low” point, we headed back to the
boat, geared down, and ate our lunch. A cup of hot chicken soup
(which is standard for double tank dives) was delicious. After an hour
wait time or “Surface Interval” (so your body won’t embolize) we
geared back up again for a second dive. we were eager to get back
at it and explore even more.

As we prepared to gear up, Captain Jack piloted the boat into a sea
cave – it was amazing! It turns out, it’s the largest sea cave in the world.
The second dive was just as amazing if not more! We were really
challenged with this dive called “Travis Rocks”. Once safely under,
Rose handed Jeff a flashlight and pointed us toward an underwater
cave. It was deep and pitched-dark. I mean black and utterly dense.
We both swallowed hard and carried on. Once inside, we were
surrounded by a school of Blue Mao Mao’s. They’re almost iridescent
blue and when the light reflected off of them it looked like they were
electric. We ended the dive just after that because when you do
extreme diving you run short on air pretty quick. On our way up, we
saw black angel fish, yellow demoiselle fish, and red moki. When we
surfaced, we realized that Elijah and Ari were nearby. So, we all
snorkeled together through an archway and met another school of
silver porae. It was so awesome to be able to experience that with the
kids! We boarded the boat and headed back to Tutukaka.
At this point, we felt so overwhelmed by the beauty of the NZ islands
and the undersea world around them that we couldn’t have been
anymore impressed. Guess what? As we departed, we came across
a large Hammerhead shark. As if that was more than enough…
Another incredible surprise happened! Captain Jack received a radio
call that a pod of Orcas was circling close to the mouth of the bay. At
that point we were thrilled by the possibility that we might be privileged
enough to see a real, wild orca. The rest of the staff from the dive shop
had boarded their other sister ship and were heading out to the bay
to join us. Along with them came a small red zodiac boat filled with 5
people and a barking dog. At first, we didn’t understand why this tiny boat with a barking dog would come all the way out there to take the
risk of being capsized by these giants. Upon further inquiry we learned
that the zodiac was being manned by the world-renowned Dr. Ingrid
Visser. She and her crew had been documenting the killer whale
population for over two decades. We kept thinking that the barking
dog was going to become an appetizer for the killer whales. Little did
we realize that that dog was actually a guide dog to bring the whales
and Ingrid together. The dog was how the orcas knew that their friend
had arrived. We watched in awe as the grandmother orca, and her
son and daughter, and granddaughter frolicked in the bay. We had
stumbled upon a miracle! Captain Jack and Rose said that in all of
the years they had been there, that this had only happened one other
time. It was a gift from the heavens above! It was perplexing to think
that somehow, we had been in the right place, at the right time, to
witness this amazing opportunity. In fact, I bawled like a baby! I’ve
been diving since I was 14, and I never imagined that I would be lucky
enough to really see an orca up life and personal. But there they
were… right off the edge of the boat, breaching and surfacing
together. How would I ever be able to top that on my bucket list? We
all arrived safely back to shore at Tutukaka completely dazed and
mesmerized.
