**South Island - Christchurch**

We woke early in Wellington to travel by ferry from the North Island to
the South Island across Cook Strait. The crossing is roughly 58 miles,
but it’s the only way to get from one island to the other (other than
flying). We boarded the ferry named the “Kaitaki” which means
“Challenger” in Maori. It’s a huge ferry that holds 600 cars and over
2,000 people. It takes about 4 hours to make the crossing. We
boarded the ferry in our car and headed up to the passenger decks.
There were 2 movie theaters, a café, a bar, and a playground.
Everything was going smoothly until we left the shelter of Wellington
harbor and came into Fitzroy Bay. As we headed out across the
straight. The winds and rain kicked up and suddenly, without warning,
the ride became terribly rough. We were seated in the bow, on the
top floor in the café. This is the worst place to be if the weather
becomes fierce at sea. I’ve never been one for seasickness. I’ve been
on plenty of ferries, boats, and even cruised and never had an issue.
After about 10 minutes of trying to wait it out, I realized I needed to
get to the back of the ship…and quickly. The difficult part was that all
of the people who had become seasick were all rushing to the back
of the boat. There was no seating left, so I stood there in the atrium and held on to the hand bar. Fortunately, I met a lady about my age
who was from the Czech Republic. She didn’t speak English, but we
quickly became friends. She was saving a seat for her husband who
was off exploring and wasn’t sick. So, she gave me his seat and I gave
her some Dramamine. Together, we made it through. It’s funny how
sometimes difficult circumstances lead to positive outcomes. Once
we reached Arapawa Island and came closer to landfall, the ride
smoothed down and my Dramamine kicked in. The mountains in the
distance were a sight to see. The view was now jaw-dropping and
almost looked fake. This route is apparently one of the world’s most
scenic waterways to traverse. We returned to our car and departed
for Picton. We still had a 5-hour drive to Christchurch.
The topography from this point forward was absolutely, without a
doubt, one of the most diverse wilderness I’ve ever seen. About every
10-20 km the entire landscape would change from mimicking the
Rocky Mountains, to the rolling valleys of Wyoming, to the rugged
coastlines of California, to the rainforests of Hawaii. As we traced the
edge of the ocean, we saw giant seals laying on the rocks with giant
waves crashing into them. We came over a dune that reminded us
of Sleeping Bear. It was covered with beach grass. We stopped to
stretch our legs and check out the surf. The beach was made up on
large stones and strong winds.

As we headed back to the car the wind
became very fragrant. We quickly realized a huge patch of wild dill
before us. The odd thing about it was that each stalk was taller than
me! Things sure grow quickly and enormous here.
We arrived at our third home in Riccarton (a suburb of Christchurch)
around 5:00 pm. This is a https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/28038523.
Once we arrived and unpacked Jeff and I took a walk.
We thought we would check out the historic “Riccarton House” a
homestead that was built in 1843 by some of the first European Settlers.
Adjacent to it is the famous “Riccarton Bush” (bush means hike). The
Māori call it Pūtaringamotu which means “the place of an echo”. This
hike is one of only two remnants of the original forest that covered the
Canterbury plains. This forest managed to escape the huge fires that swept across the province during the Moa hunter period. The other
remnant, at Papanui, was cut down for lumber in the 1850s. Both
forests are dominated by Kahikatea trees. A predator-proof perimeter
fence protects the this walk for unwanted species. Slowly they are try
to reintroduce the Kiwi to the reserve. The Kiwi is endangered so they
are doing all that they can to protect it from becoming extinct. It was
interesting that in the middle of a suburb laid this beautiful nature
preserve.

After exploring, we returned home to have pizza and rotisserie
chicken. We’ve also been watching a series called “Departures” on
Netflix. So, we enjoyed one of their episodes of their adventures in NZ.