January 18th Friday
South Island - Dunedin
We left Christchurch around 10 am. We traveled down the coast on Highway 1.
Along the way we checked out Oamaru, a little British-looking fish town.
Apparently, they are the headquarters for the “Steampunk” movement. All
around the city are Steampunk statues and lawn art. The old Victorian Era
buildings were set upon cobbled streets fit tightly together similar to Yorkshire,
England.
Just past Oamaru we stopped to get lunch at “Lockies” a fish n’ chips place. We
tried the Blue Cod and had the world famous Makikihi Chips. They were
delectable!
After lunch we happened upon the “Moeraki Boulders”. They are a group of
large spherical “stones” on Koekohe. Maori legend tells that the boulders are
remains of mighty eel baskets that washed ashore. The canoe, the “Araiteuru”
was wrecked at nearby Shag Point.
As we came into Dunedin there was a huge flock of black swans on the Blue Skin
Bay. Dunedin is a Scottish settlement. We will be here 4 nights so that Jeff can
meet with more University Administrators. Just down the road from the house, are
natural hot, salt water pools.
We arrived at our 4th house with great trepidation. It was in a pretty rough spot
of town. On VRBO, the house looked like a little elderly grandma’s cottage. It
was super cheap because we were trying to save a buck since our stay in
Stanmore Bay was pricy. We thought we could make up the difference here in
Dunedin. Unfortunately, as we looked around the neighborhood it felt a lot like

a British version of Sanford and Sons. As we unlatched the iron gate, we followed
a crumbling- steep-crooked steps overtaken by brushes that hit you in the head.
When we got to the front door, we realized that it had been replaced with a
door from an old store. In fact, the entire front entry was pieces and scraps made
out of what looked like many different job sights that might have been recycled
for free. As we entered the house it had a really creepy air to it. The entire house
slanted down towards the high hill it was on. You felt like you were walking up a
ramp if you went to the back of the house. A table in the kitchen had two of its
legs off the floor over an inch. The floor was so uneven. The bathroom was
pieced together with not one, two, or three, types of tiles…but rather six (and
none of them matched). Everything was really dusty and had cobwebs. We went
out to the backyard and there was a “working” outhouse. It looked like the
neighbor behind us was living in a tent. We surmised that he may be the one
using it, and were worried that the plumbing would go out. On the other side, it
looked like the neighbor was living out of an old bus. There was litter, broken
pots, old building materials, and a fence that was made out of 4 different
materials. There was a large bin in the bedroom that had a note on it which read,
“In case of rain, the hallway leaks… use this tub to catch the drips”. Rain was
predicted that night and all of tomorrow. I just couldn’t shake the eerie feeling,
like something super sketchy went on here. Since I’m totally superstitious… and I
totally believe in ghosts! I was calling on my protector Archangel Uriel. It wasn’t
just me either – Jeff and the kids were concerned too. In Elijah’s words it was a
“$h!t Show”. We kept wavering (thinking maybe we were just being snooty). We
decided that we all just needed to give it a chance and not let our intuition get
to us. We headed back down the twisting broken path to haul all of our stuff up.
We were determined we’d make the best of it. Once everything was in the
house, we started to wonder if this was all a huge mistake. We called the host,
Tony, to see if there was anyway that he could partially reimburse us for a portion
of our stay. He said he’d be right there. He was a nice guy – rough around the
edges. He and his family live in the house next door. He explained that the house
used to be a meth lab and that the drug dealers ran the entire neighborhood.
Then, they left in a hurry, and the house went on the market. Tony said he bought
the house to prevent anyone else who was trouble from buying it. He said he
worked in construction by himself and that he was trying to get rent to offset his
debt. We really felt sorry for him. He explained that this has happened many
times before with other VRBO guests, but some don’t even last as long as we did.
He explained that the neighborhood was still a bit dodgy, but we didn’t need to
be afraid because the Rottweiler in the lot diagonally behind us would let us
know if we were going to be robbed. I guess that was the end of the end for us.
We knew this wasn’t going to work, so we kindly thanked him and wished him
well. We hauled all of our stuff back down to the “low-rider” and headed out.

Quickly we searched for houses that would been available last minute. Elijah,
(our computer whiz) found us an awesome alternative for a reasonable amount.
Jeff contacted the host, Amanda and she said we could have it, but it needed
to be cleaned. We would be able to check in in 2 hours Whew!!!
We headed to an Irish pub called “The Bog” for dinner. Jeff and Elijah played
darts, and Ari and I tried to shake off the icky feeling. Just as planned, we arrived
2 hours later, and were thrilled with the house.
Here is the link:
https://www.vrbo.com/20034745ha. Our new, 4th house was located on the
other side of Dunedin, in Anderson’s Bay as you head out towards the Otago
Peninsula. Due to the fact that we were filling a gap for the hosts, we got a deal
on the price. The house has expansive sliding doors and a large deck with
uninterrupted views of the city and the St. Clair Harbor. We all were exhausted
from our second day of traversing the country with a 12-hour trip. So, we
showered and headed straight to bed.

Images

