E hoa ma, ina te ora o te tangata
“My friends, this is the essence of life”
Jan. 2 Wednesday
North Island Stanmore Bay
We woke late again (still trying to overcome jet lag and the time change). We joined
a nationwide fitness club called “Snap”. All four of us would have access to the gym
in pretty much every city we will be in (except when we are in remote locations).
After a long-awaited workout, we headed back into Auckland to go to a few music
stores for Jeff and Ari. We needed to rent them a keyboard and a saxophone.
However, we returned to the house empty handed. The difficulty was that in order
to rent any instrument you have to have a NZ bank account. After going to several
banks, we were told that we could not get a bank account because you have to
live here for 1 year. That’s when we entered the loop of the what we refer to as “The
Instrument Conundrum”. We were also found ourselves up against the fact that most
businesses are closed for New Year’s holiday until Jan. 4th. This problem would have
to be resolved another day.
On our way back to the house we stopped at Shakespeare point park. It is a
sanctuary reserve with magnificent views of the Hauraki Gulf. From our house, you
can see the park to the southeast set up upon a cliff. What a view!
One thing that goes without saying is that New Zealand is filled with so many
interesting flowers. Most of which I have never seen or imagined. On our way back,
we started to notice the same flower with a large globe-like head. It’s actually a very
pretty weed, but an invasive plant that was brought here during the Boer Wars. It’s
called “Agapanthus” or “Lily of the Nile”. It blooms in bright purple and white. It looks
kind of like a hydrangea, but it’s bigger and each petal is long instead of flat. It’s a
perennial so you see it everywhere. Whether you’re in a neighborhood or out in the
countryside you almost can’t go more than a few miles in any direction without
seeing one.
We returned to the house to have dinner and watch the Disney movie Moana (which
is set in NZ). As we headed to bed we were filled with great gratitude that we were
actually here, and that each of us were to embark on an amazing journey to seek
the essence of life.

Images

This is the view from our deck

