**Dunedin**

Since it was Sunday morning, Jeff and I headed downtown to go to
the Presbyterian Cathedral. It was the first church built in Dunedin. The
foundation stone was laid by their first Minister Dr. Thomas Burns
(brother of the famous Scottish poet Robbie Burns). It’s located in the
heart of town on the Octagon. (The center of town, where the
incoming roads create an octagon.) With it’s ornate and spires and
stained glass it was really a sight to behold. Leaf patterns and dragons
are placed in pairs in the upper windows and in other wood and stone
details. The rose window sits right above the pulpit. It resembles the
petals of peace. At 50 years old we were the youngest in the
congregation by at least 20 years. The pastor was a woman who
came down to greet us. Her message was about setting our spirits
upon a rock that is higher than ourselves, and opening ourselves up in
order to bless others. In doing so, we can receive with gratitude God’s
endless and abundant love. After the service, we went to adjoining
heritage center which is part of the cathedral.

When we returned home the four of us went on an adventure down
the Otago Peninsula. The steep and narrow roadway crisscross’ the
dramatic landscape through valleys, mountains, and cliffs. When at
the top there are 360 degree views of both the south Pacific Ocean
and Otago Bay.

Our first stop was to take a tour of Larnach Castle. It is the only castle
in NZ. It was built 1871 by William Larnach, an Australian merchant,
baron, and politician. It is situated at the top of a mountain amongst
35 acres of wilderness. It took more than 200 workmen 12-years to
build. The craftsmanship is second to none. It has spectacular tower
views which reveal amazing vistas of untamed coastline and
sweeping sheep fields. The vibrantly colored perennial gardens,
exotic trees, herbs, and hedges come together to create a diverse
array of native as well as exotic flora from around the world. Over 81%
of the native plant species found in NZ are found nowhere else in the
world. Much of the vegetation here is over 40 million years ago.
Today, the castle is privately owned. The continued restoration is
funded by admission fees weddings, balls, conferences and
celebrations. It has a 3,000 square foot Ballroom, and High Tea is
served daily. Once we had completed our tours we headed off to our
next adventure.

We traveled further down to the very tip of the Otago peninsula, at
Taiaroa Head. In Maori, this sacred area is called “Pukekura”. Here we
found some of the most outstanding picturesque scenery. In fact, it
was so beautiful it almost looked fake. Like someone came along and
filmed it using CGI. Every corner just blew us away.
Our next adventure was to visit the famous “Royal Albatross Centre”.
It is a nature reserve that does continuous research, protection, and
conservation of marine animals. They are home to the largest
albatross colony, in the world. They also protect; sea lions, seals, and
penguins. We took a private guided tour to climb to the top of a
Cliffside up to the observatory to view their nesting location. The
albatross is an amazing creature! With a wingspan of over 9 feet long.
They fly at speed of 75 miles per hour. They mate for life. Both parents share in the incubation period of 12 weeks. They only lay one egg
every two years. Once the chick hatches they are reared for six
months. The parents then leave the chick and the colony and spend
an entire year at sea. Following that, the chick leaves the colony and
lives at sea (without touching land) for 4-6 years. They sleep floating in
the water. Once they return, they find a mate and the entire life-cycle
begins again. We had the excellent luck of having a very windy day.
Apparently, they love to play in the wind. We were very fortunate
have made at least 14-sightings. It’s very rare to see Albatross wild in
nature, so we felt honored to have had the opportunity. Afterward,
we came back home and had taco salad for dinner and played
euchre.