**South Island - Dunedin**

We all woke up and went to Snap to workout. After that Jeff went to meet with
more University administrators and professors. Elijah was buried with work for his
job, Ari was busy making a vlog, and I worked on this blog.
Once Jeff returned, we went downtown Dunedin to walk around and get a sense
of the city. We saw the Robbie Burns Memorial, and did a circuit of the Octagon,
(a famous shopping district). Another observation we’ve made since we arrived
in NZ is that literally everyone in every big city strictly uses the crosswalks and only
when the walk symbol is illuminated and ringing do they actually cross. However,
at intersections all of the lights in every corner are stopped for pedestrian traffic
and at that time you can even “J” walk if you want to, but as soon as the bell
stops ringing you must be across. Even if there is a large break in traffic and you
could easily make it across, people wait until the next cycle. It’s another one of
those cultural norms here. It’s almost like they would consider it rude to not follow
the crosswalk rules. We explored the city while Jeff got a haircut.
Once he was done we went to Hancock Park. The waves were crazy big
because of the enormous wind storm that has swept through Dunedin for the past
two days. It was so strong that the gusts almost knock you over if you are not fully
balanced. Once we were wind swept enough, we headed back to the house.
Elijah ordered a pizza. 

We had a quiet evening as we sat on the balcony watching the sunset and then
the lights below us from the city began to appear. It was magical!