January 22nd Tuesday
South Island - Manapouri
We woke, packed up, and headed out to our next stop in Manapouri (which lies
about 5 hours west of Dunedin). We would be moving from the east coast on the
South Pacific to the west coast located on the Tasman Sea. Once over the pass,
we would enter a protected area called “The Fiordlands” (which are made up
of 14 different inlets that are long and narrow and are shaped with steep cliffs or
rock formations on both sides). The journey there was particularly lovely as we
meandered down wide valleys with striking mountain views and through small
villages. We traversed over the stunning high moorlands which were covered in
native red tussock fields (which look like huge beach grass). They’re flowing
forms are particularly impressive in wide-exposed windy sites. It’s as if the rolling
hills form waves over the land instead of water. As we caught our first views of
Fiordland’s National Park with its jagged mountains, rugged glacial valley’s, and
glittering lake district we were once again swept away with wonder. Manapouri
and its neighboring town Te Anau are both small villages that provide a great
base from which to explore the extraordinary scenic alpine beauty. We found
ourselves on the very edge of civilization in a vast wilderness in the middle of
nowhere, and yet in a small neighborhood.
Our 5th house seemed as if was built in the early 1950’s. Here is the
https://www.vrbo.com/20013399ha?unitId=3719823. It lies across the street from
Frasers Beach on Lake Manapouri.
The lake is an amazing 1,500 feet deep (the second deepest in NZ) and contains
over 34 islands that are surrounded by a Podocarp forest. A Podocarp forest is
lush with a dense undergrowth of shrubs, ferns and tree-ferns. Podocarp trees
are evergreens with a lineage that stretches back to the time when New Zealand
was part of the super continent of “Gondwana”. The best known Podocarp tree
is the Rimu which is my favorite. They are conifers and remnants from ancient
times. They live to be over 1,000 years old. When young, Rimu has weeping
branches. As the tree matures it grows very long branches that extend upwards

towards heaven. When fully grown, it sheds large flakes of bark, leaving a wavy
pattern on its trunk. Rimu berries are also edible. I just love the symbolism of that!
On his second voyage to New Zealand, Captain Cook brewed Rimu beer to help
prevent scurvy amongst his crew, and presumably to keep morale high as well.
That night, we headed down to the beach to check out one of the most
dramatic views of NZ. The skyline over Lake Manipouri is cluttered with mountains
upon mountains, upon mountains in great layers. We kind of separated and
walked in our own directions just to have some alone time and soak in the beauty
in our own way, and at our own speed. Later that night I made pork chops for
dinner, we played games “Guess Who” and “Jenga” and headed to bed.

Images

