January 24th Thursday
South Island - Manapouri
The Fiordland’s National Park is the largest National Park in New Zealand covering 2.5 million acres.
This was the morning we were going to brave the wilderness. We prepared ourselves for a 12 km hike
on Kepler’s Trek. The section of the Kepler Track that we would conquer was from Rainbow Reach to
Shallow Bay.
It began with long-narrow swing bridge that crosses over the Waiau River. It then turns left towards a
sharp ascent followed by multiple sets of switch backs and terraces. The track is well marked, and
rocked but some sections are a bit steep, and rough which make this walk a bit challenging
particularly because of the huge cliff drops to the river and valley below are quite dangerous. The
vegetation is dominated by sphagnum moss, other mosses and wire rush with a huge range of colossal
ferns. I’m not even sure, but there must have been at least 7-8 different varieties. Most of them were
taller than me.
Then the path gently wanders through a Red and Mountain Beech forest with spectacular river views.
Some scenes in the Lord of the Rings movies were filmed near this part of the river. Apparently, this
area is also known for excellent trout fly fishing. Some of the wildlife that exists in this area are the red
deer, boars, possums, hares, and stoats. Along the way I had a beautiful encounter with a little
endangered bird called a Toutouwai (which looks like a tiny grey robin) that kept wanting to be
noticed. It followed me along the path and landed in a branch right in front of me and flitted its wings
as I whispered to it.
Further along was a peat bog, in the central part of the mire system. This wetter portion was
dominated by sedges and yellow-silver pine. We then continued on to the shore of Lake Manapouri.
Once we reached the beach we sat on a huge log overlooking the lake and had a picnic lunch. On
our way back, we crossed another swinging bridge where Jeff and I spotted an eel in the river. As we
were completing the 12 km trek we crossed back over the Waiau River. Just then, a large commercial
speedboat packed with at least a dozen passengers sped under us at a ridiculous speed and did a
quick 360. They were part of a fast and thrilling ride that tourists can take down the river. It was just
super cool to watch it from a bird eyes view about 40-50 feet below us.
We returned home tired, sweaty, and really hungry. I made BBQ chicken drumsticks and corn on the
cob for dinner. We practically inhaled it! Then we watched Black Panther (my favorite Marvel movie).
After our incredible up-close and personal adventure through the alpine rainforest we couldn’t help
but feel like we were in Wakanda (The kingdom from Black Panther). What an amazing day!

Images

