January 25th Friday
South Island - Manapouri
We woke at 6:30 am to begin our long awaited trip to Doubtful Sound. Doubtful Sound was
named by the famous explorer Captain James Cook because he feared that his ship “The
Endeavor” would not be able to sail into the inlets and back out through the narrow and
twisting hidden waterway.
Our journey began at Pearl Harbor Marina about 5 minutes from our house. Doubtful Sound
has no road access so the only way in entails quite an involved process. First, we traveled by
boat across the crystal clear Lake Manapouri. Then, we disembarked and boarded a tour bus
in order to scale the peak of Wilmot Pass. Finally, we boarded a second boat from Deep Cove
and traveled out to the mouth of the Tasman sea.
This vast and remote wilderness experience gave us the opportunity to visit the true isolated
backcountry (areas untouched by humans). Along the way, we were rewarded by the
presence of a pod of bottle-nosed dolphins. As we traveled further down the sound we wound
through sheer rock faces and pristine rainforests. We also spotted two blue penguins playing
in the water. Finally, when we reached the Tasman Sea we were treated to the sight of a small
island filled with a colony of fur seals basking in the sun. This sea is filled with undersea
volcanoes as deep as 2 miles with swells that can reach over 50 feet at shore. It was turbulent
and vast.
Soon after, we returned to the safety of Doubtful Sound we experienced what the Maori call
the “Sound of Silence”. As we sat floating gently in the sound surrounded by cloud piercing
summits and rugged peaks. Then, the captain turned off all of the engines. He then made the
request that everyone on board remain absolutely still and completely quiet. We all sat in
contemplation and awe of what surrounded us. The silence was only broken to reveal the rush
of the waterfalls and hint of birdsong all around us. This indeed was a very special place – one
that very few are privileged to see. The complete isolation allowed for a deeper sense of
connectedness with nature and God. As we completed the journey we were humbled to
have encountered this uninhabited, unchanged, and unforgettable piece of the earth. It will
remain etched into our memories forever.
Later that night, we had bean burrito’s and we entered the second round of “Monopoly Wars”
(in which Jeff beat us all up pretty bad…let’s just put it this way… He owned almost the whole
board.

Images

