January 27th Sunday
South Island - Manapouri
I woke up early and worked on compiling a list of potential endorsements for my book. I’m
hoping to launch it in June/July. Jeff woke shortly after and worked on a piece that he’s been
composing.
The weather here in the South Island is dramatically different than that of the North Island.
(Remember, it’s opposite here – the South Island is closer to Antarctica). It rains considerably
more, and is also windier and cooler. When we were in the North Island it was beach weather.
Since we’ve arrived in the South Island there have not been too many days that we’ve worn
shorts. This is why we planned on being down here for the heart of summer when it’s the
warmest. This way hiking through the Fiords and mountains would be more manageable. By
the time we get back to the North Island it will be Autumn.
Today, however was quite different. It was freakishly warm so we thought we’d take a hike,
and then head to the beach to cool off. We decided to go back and take on another section
of the Kepler Trek.
This time we started at the “Control Gates” (where the Waiau River enters Lake Te Anau).
There, the water level is monitored and energy is sourced. Our goal was to hike about 9.6 km
to Brod Bay.
The Kepler track was designed to show you all the best features of Fiordlands. It’s a loop of
60km so we were excited to see what this section had to offer.
To begin we crossed the gates, and followed a trail on a narrow path that meandered along
the side of Lake Te Anau. The native forests with moss-draped beech trees, prolific bird life,
and interesting river flats with limestone formations were a treat to our senses. The sound of
the cicadas added with the sound of singing birds was a beautiful addition. The smell of lush
rainforest with a mix of woody blends topped it off.
We walked to our goal (where the Waiau River enters Lake Te Anau). Then, we left the trail
and went out to the shore of the lake. We played in the rocky riverbed for a bit, and then we
headed back via the loop.

Once again we were incredibly impressed by the vast diversity that every hike has brought us.
Nature… is such a gift anywhere, but it feels like nature is on steroids down here. All four of us
feel closer to God in the woods or water than anywhere. It’s just been so refreshing to take in
all of these wonders at such a dynamic level. It seems like our first few hikes just felt like a
dream… everything was so foreign. But now, almost a month later, we’re beginning to identify
more and more of the trees, bushes, palms, vines, flowers, and even birds. As we said our final
goodbye to Kepler we felt as if we had discovered a special and exquisite corner of the world
that we will always carry with us…
At this point we were sweaty and tired so we headed to the beach to cool off. The sand was
super hot, and the water incredibly cold. Soon after we arrived, the pesky sandflies came to
join us (the sting of the sandflies here, is like that of the black flies back home). Not fun! Our
time at beach didn’t last long. We bolted to the car as soon as the swarm came in.
We returned to home and Jeff made steaks and I made a Caprese salad. We decided to
watch Jurassic World 2. Some of the scenes were filmed here. Apparently, the film crew was
chased off by the sandflies too. They had everyone on location, but after a few scenes were
shot the fog came in for multiple days. The crew decided to pack up and they relocated to
Hawaii. It looks very similar to Hawaii here so watching both films was like looking out the
window.

Images

