January 28th Monday
South Island - Manipouri
Today we decided that we were all going to do what we needed to do in order to keep up
with responsibilities back home. Jeff had a meeting with another administer. So, we figured
we would all catch up on our own stuff too. Later, when Jeff returned he worked on CUMC
and NMC stuff. Elijah was wrapping up a deadline with AMPEL. Ari hit it hard with her on-line
classes through TCAPS (Chemistry & Algebra II). I went back to my two online classes for
certification renewal. It was a quiet, but necessary day.
As the evening began to set in I went on a super long walk down by the shore. The beach
was filled with rocks about the size of my palm. They were waiting for me to skip a few across
the water. For as far as the eye could see, the water wrapped its way around the mountains.
It was almost hypnotic! The majesty of the moment filled me with appreciation for this great
adventure. As I sat in peace with that, I realized that I had been gone for quite a while. I
checked to see how far I had gone. My Fitbit had calculated 9.7 km! Whew!
Later that night, we went down to the only pub in Manipouri, a little place called “The Church”.
It actually was once a Presbyterian church that was built in 1885. Ari and I got vegetarian
salads (Greek and Tabouli) and Jeff and Elijah got their normal standbys; Fish chips and a huge
messy burger! We sat outside and tried to soak up the remaining bits of Manipouri before we
left in the morning. Its been an interesting experience so far because just about the time we
begin to know our way around and we’ve seen or done the major tourist thing, its time to
move on. We’re enjoying this new nomadic life!

Images

