**South Island - Invercargill**

We woke early and packed up. We’re getting into a great system with the departure of each
place. We’ve established a very efficient routine. We can wake up, get ready, eat breakfast,
pack, and clean in under 2 hours. Now that doesn’t sound like a big deal, but with all the stuff
we’re hauling around with us it’s pretty darn impressive! Anyway, back to the departure - when
I say clean…I mean spotless. If you ever do an Air B&B or VRBO here in New Zealand, be sure…
I mean absolutely sure that you leave each house in the same as you received it. The Kiwi
have very high expectations of how they expect you to take care of their house. They expect
you to do all of the dishes and vacuuming. All beds are stripped and all towels and linens are
accounted for. They’re really serious about it. After growing up in a motel I would have done
all of this anyway. But the caveat is that… just as we are encouraged to rate the hosts of each
property, they are also supposed to rate us. Obviously, since we will spend our time here in
over 23 houses- it’s important that we don’t get a bad rating. We also take before and after
shots to be sure that we put everything back where we found it. Keep in mind… Our blue
“Low-rider” is getting closer and closer to the road everyday as we pack it tighter and tighter.
We made our departure from Manipouri and started our route south to Invercargill. Jeff would
be meeting with two different administrators there at both of the Universities.

First, we followed the Waiau River into Cliffden. There we saw a famous suspension bridge
called the “Iron Bridge”. It was built in 1899, and is about 365 ft. long. The reason that it is
famous is because it was constructed by twenty-seven steel cables that attach to huge
concrete pillars. The amazing thing about it is that it still has it’s historic wooden decking.
Next, we passed through Orepuki. It was once a thriving gold mining settlement, but now is
basically a ghost town. There we found an amazing treasure there known as “Gemstone
Beach”. It’s named that because the wild Southern Ocean feeds a magnificent surf to the
shoreline. The tide it creates puts the beach in a constant state of change. Many gems can
be found here especially “Pounamu” which is a valued jade. Other gems such as garnet,
jasper, and sapphire can be found. We were able to collect 6 of the Pounamu. The crashing
waves make it one of the best places for surfing. The undercurrent also makes it a dangerous
place to a beginner. We watched two surfers there just trying to get a good curl. As we were
exploring a bit more we were greeted by horseback riders coming to play along the shore. As
we set out for the other side of the beach we came upon huge formations of Devonian sandstone. They carved their way among a rivulet that flowed from the ocean inland about
500 meters long. There, we found fallen limbs that had been weathered by the course of time.
At the top of the largest formation was a small home buried into the center at the top. We
wondered who lived there? Was it just a fort? Maybe through the generations someone might
have inherited the right to build there? It was a mixture of the “badlands” meets the “Cliffs of
Dover”-only red, orange, and yellow. The beach was deep, and stretched out in both
directions as far as we could see. What a gift to see this awesome display of rugged nature.
As we entered Riverton, we all agreed that we were hungry so headed to “The Aparima
Gastrobar.” Riverton is the oldest permanent settlement in the South Island. We sat outside
overlooking “Jacobs River Estuary”. It was low tide so we were able to see the bottom of the
estuary. It was fiercely hot, so we took turns sitting on the less shady side. It was still scorching
but we made the best of it. Jeff had eggs benedict with salmon. Ari and I got a Falafel salad,
and Elijah got another big greasy burger. In spite of the extreme temperature our meal was
excellent, and we had the best service since we arrived in NZ.
We followed the Southern Scenic Route to Invercargill via State Highway 99. We arrived in the
evening, went to the store, and headed to our 6th house.

Here in the
https://www.vrbo.com/7184178ha. Jeff and I went on a walk to stretch our legs and to check
out our surroundings. Invercargill lies at the very southern tip of the South Island. It seemed to
us that because of their remote location the town was stuck in the 60’s and many of the
buildings were out of business or about to. The city is pretty much two cities; the north- which
is affluent, and the south-which was struggling. We were located in the south where the
neighborhood was a bit dodgy. Another interesting thing that we noticed right away were
the number of American muscle cars from the 60’s and 70’s.

Once we returned we had dinner and played Monopoly. It was decided that Jeff and Ari
had a tie (you know… when you get to the point that it goes on forever). We watched a little
TV and then headed to bed. It had been another busy but wonderful day!