Ehara taku toa, he takitahi, he toa takitini
The Love bestowed onto us is the love of a collective spirit”
Jan. 3 Thursday
North Island Stanmore Bay
Jeff and Elijah took a run in the morning. Then, Jeff was off to meet with the two
administers from the surrounding Universities. I spent the morning trying to figure out
what local activities/experiences were available in our region. We decided that
while we were in this location we would go to Goat Island to do snorkeling, so we
booked the snorkeling trip for Sunday.
Coming from winter in Michigan to summer in NZ, we really wanted to enjoy the
beach as much as possible. We planned it that way so that we would be in the South
Island for the bulk of summer and return to the North Island for their Fall. This would
make hiking the Fiords and Glaciers in the south more palatable. With that in mind
we decided to soak in summer with the two weeks that we had.
Later in the afternoon, we hiked up and down the beach to the cliffs on one side
and a public park on the other.
That night, we decided that we would begin watching The Hobbit trilogy and The
Lord of the Rings trilogy. As you may know… both were filmed in NZ. We had all
watched both many times, but in order to be able to make the dots match-up, we
needed to reorient ourselves to the setting and scenery. That way, we would
recognize each place as we stumbled upon it. We watched The Hobbit 1 to get
ourselves started.
None of the houses here have screens on their windows. Most have trifold extension
door walls so that you can open the entire side of a room directly to the outside. The
majority of the windows are that way as well. It’s so wonderful to have the cross
breezes go right through the house, (especially at night). All we could hear was the
rustle of the palm frons in the wind and the crashing roll of the surf below us. Even as
we slept we had the sense that we were connected to the incredible gift of nature
that NZ provides. Amen!

Images

The view from the master bedroom

