**South Island – Invercargill**

Jeff met with administrators first thing in the morning. When he returned the kids
and I were ready to go. With PB & J sandwiches in tow we set off on a long day
trip.

First, we headed out to a nature reserve called “The Catlins” We traveled to the
edge of Waipapa to an area known as “Slope Point”. It’s located at the most
southern end of the South Islands coast. It’s literally the very end of NZ. You can
stand right at the marker that points you 2,500 miles towards Antarctica. The cliff
was stunning! They had no fence line, so it’s not the kind of place you would
want to take children. We were careful not to get to close to the edge the view
looking downward kept us in check for sure.

There along the cliffs stood “The Waipapa Lighthouse”. It was built in 1884 in
response to a terrible ship wreck. A passenger steamer was torn apart on the reef
and unfortunately took many lives. The lighthouse has been modernized but it is
still in use.

Going further past the lighthouse we headed across large boulders and beyond
to a sweeping golden beach. There was a scattering of huge rocks along the
shoreline. As we ventured closer we realized that two of the enormous rocks
were actually a pair of snoozing sea lions. The Catlins area has one of the largest
populations of Sea Lions, Fur Seals, and even Elephant Seals. This was home for
a rarest breed of Sea Lions called the “Hookers” Sea Lion. Most of NZ Sea Lions
live and breed here and in the sub-Antarctic areas. We walked down closer to
where they were resting. They were enormous! They began to stir a bit so we
decided we wouldn’t take the chance of disturbing them. What an awesome
gift to sere these wild giants up close and personal. 

Once we headed back to the car we routed ourselves to check out Curio Bay.
It is home to a Petrified Fossil Forest which is about 180 million years old. The logs
from ancient conifers of (Kauri and Norfolk) Pines were buried in volcanic mud
flows that once exposed to the sea produced silica that eventually turned not
only the logs but also ferns to be preserved forever. The bay also has the largest
colony of yellow-eyed penguins. The rarest of their species. There are only 1,600
breeding pairs left before they become extinct. Unfortunately, we were not able
to find any. The park signs said that it was the wrong time of the year to see
them. That’s okay though because we had already seen the “Little Blue
Penguins” during our river cruise expedition through “Doubtful Sound”.

Finally, we wrapped up the day with a visit to Cathedral Cave. They are located
on Maori tribal land. They are only accessible for two hours at low tide, so you
have to be timely with our planning. We had timed it perfectly so that we would
have ample time to explore the caves. They are amongst the longest sea caves
in the world. The two main cave systems join together within a cliff. The 200meter cave was formed in Jurassic sandstone about 160 million years ago.