Ka pū te ruha, ka hao te rangatahi
“As an old net withers another is remade”
Jan. 4 Friday
North Island Stanmore Bay
Jeff and Elijah got up early and took a jog down the beach again. They really
enjoy being able to just jump right in the ocean to cool off once they were done
running. We were very surprised how many dogs are at the beach. About every
other person has a dog that their walking. All of the dogs go without leashes too.
We couldn’t help but think how much Finn and Gus would have loved to be able
to romp around freely on this vast beach. Each time a dog would approach
another they would run around a bit and then go on to the next dog.
Ari and I slept in today. It has been a true blessing for me… Since we have
arrived in NZ, I’ve been able to sleep a bit better. Most people know that I’ve
struggled with insomnia my whole life. Two years ago, my insomnia became
dangerously chronic. To the point where it was debilitating and seriously
affecting my health. As soon as we arrived in NZ that has begun to change. I
went from 3-4 hours a night to 5-6. I feel so grateful that this tide is beginning to
turn for me. Let’s hope it sticks!
Once we were all up, we went back to Snap to workout. That’s another thing
that has been awesome is that we are able to take the time to work out. We all
enjoy a great workout, so it’s been fantastic for us to challenge ourselves
physically.
Next, we went car shopping. We went to Gulliver’s, a very large Nationwide car
sales company. They have specials for those traveling in NZ for extended times.
To rent a car for as long as we needed would have been very expensive. We
did a ton of research before we left and found that if we bought car it would be
less expensive. Gulliver’s has a contract that buys back the car for 75% of the
value of the car. Most of the cars are shipped in from Japan because Japan
has very strict regulations of vehicles. The majority of them are only on the roads
for 3 years. The car that we purchased is a blue Honda Odyssey. Many of the
controls are in Japanese so we’re still discovering what they mean. It was the
easiest purchase of a vehicle that we’ve ever had. The bonus was that I could
pay for it with my credit card which gave me a cash back bonus. All of the car
retailers have the cars in large warehouses not open lots. NZ has numerous

requirements for used vehicles so before we could pick it up, they do a complete
inspection (W.O.F. – Warranty of Fitness) and fix anything that might be wrong
before you receive it. Our scheduled pick up was set for Monday. We still had a
rental from our arrival, so instead of paying for more days through the weekend
they gave us a courtesy car to drive until then.
We still hadn’t given up on trying to solve the “Instrument Conundrum”. We
continued our search on finding a bank that would give us an account or a
music store that would allow us to rent. After many failed attempts we still
managed to end up empty handed. Jeff truly needed a keyboard for
composing, and Ari needed a saxophone in order to practice so that she might
have the chance to be in the top band (Wind Ensemble) at Central High School
next year.
At the end of our search for the day we stumbled on to a suburb of Auckland:
Otaroa. It had the vibe of “Little Havana” in Miami. The streets were lined with
stores that were filled with great deals. The only difference was that instead of
the people being of mainly Cuban decent, there was a plethora of people from
all over the world. Thai and Indian, Japanese and Europeans, Latinos and
Africans. We walked up and down just soaking in all of the sounds and smells of
Otaroa.
After a bit we decided to head back to the house. We settled in with dinner and
watched The Hobbit 2.

Images

