He kotuku rerenga tahi
“The White Heron Flies with Peace”
Jan. 5 Saturday
North Island - Stanmore Bay
We woke that morning to find out that Jeff’s laptop had fritzed out! He obviously
couldn’t do without one. He needed one to do research here and to stay in
communication with everyone from NMC and CUMC. Upon further investigation we
realized that our only option was to purchase a new one, yikes!!! So, we headed
back in to Auckland to spend another bundle of money to replace his old one.
When we returned Jeff and I were invited to have dinner with our VRBO hosts and
neighbors, Dave and Trish. They were so welcoming and generous. We arrived
promptly at 6:00 with a bottle of wine and a beautiful bouquet of flowers. Their home
was an 8-bedroom mansion. Seriously! They even had an infinity pool on the edge
of the cliff that the houses were situated on.
There, we were introduced to 8 of their friends. We sat on their mammoth sized Lanai
and were served golden champagne. We had amazing appetizers complete with
thinly sliced raw Ahi Tuna and fresh oysters. Then, we headed into their richly
appointed dining room for a feast. There, we had both a huge baked ham and a
London roast. We had 4 different salads and 3 different side vegetables. Throughout
dinner (which was about 5 hours long) we were presented with numerous samples of
high-end NZ wines. NZ has some of the most highly rated wines in the world. We were
completely shocked by the huge size of portions everyone ate. The other tricky thing
was that EVERYONE had eaten their plates clean. Not even a scrap remained. We
quickly realized we would need to do the same including fatty bites and all. Dave
continued to re-fill, re-fill, re-fill our glasses before we had even had a chance to be
half-full. Oh my…After dinner, we had not one, but two rounds of dessert. By the
time we left (about 1:30 am in the morning) we were completely stuffed and let’s just
say... we couldn’t have had another bite or drop for a while. What a hoot! We had
been treated like Royalty. Jeff was also able to make connections with their friends
around both islands to facilitate his research. What an awesome Kiwi night!

Images

