Kaitiakitanga (k-eye-tee-uh-key-tuhn-guh)
“We are all Guardians; let us all be stewards”
Jan. 6 Sunday
North Island - Stanmore Bay
Jeff went to church in the morning to check out what worship looks like here in
NZ. This way, he’d have a new perspective once we return to CUMC.
We were excited to head out on our snorkeling trip to Goat Island Marine
Reserve. It’s named after the little island (Goat Island or Motu Hawere) that sits
just 100 meters off the beach and protects it from Pacific Ocean swells. Goat
Island is named after the goats released by early European seafarers, to provide
food for those who became marooned. It was the very first reserve in the entire
country. The amount of both marine reserves and land sanctuaries here in NZ
sets a great example for the rest of the world. The Maori are revered here and
so is their land. Goat Island Beach is the setting off point for diving, snorkeling,
kayaking and glass bottom boat tours. Most visitors come to see the many
different types of underwater sea life. The reserve is sometimes visited by
dolphins, orca and fur seals. More than 100 species of fish have been recorded
in the reserve. Due to the fact that it was a Sunday, the reserve was swamped
with families both on the beach and in the lagoon. Therefore, the wildlife was
not as extensive as we had hoped. We did see a few eagle rays. We did see
many invertebrate species that include crabs, lobsters, and sea stars. The schools
of fish were mainly snappers.
The beach was made up of black sand and amongst it were huge lava
cropping’s. Hovering around the coastline were Pied Shags (local seagull-like
birds). They nested in the large Pohutukawa trees (Christmas). We watched them
fly off to hunt for food, and then return to dry their wings on the beach.
After we had enjoyed all that we could of Goat Island, we headed back to the
house for a light dinner and watched The Hobbit 3.

Images

