**“Kia Ora” (Welcome)**
We left TC at 8:00 am to catch our flight from Detroit. We arrived around noon
to find that our flight was delayed by an hour and 15 minutes because of snow
storms out east. We waited 4 hours to board the plane to San Francisco. The flight
out of San Francisco had also been changed to depart an hour and a half
early. Since we had gone with two separate carriers, this only gave us 45 minutes
in San Francisco to collect our luggage, go to ticketing, go through security, and
board the next flight to Fiji. Lesson #1- Never book an international flight with two
different carriers. At this point we knew we would miss the flight to Fiji. There was
no way that we could have made it! So, our only option was to change the flight
from San Francisco to Fiji instead go to LA, spend the night and depart early the
following day for Fiji. (Fiji airways only had flights from SFO on Saturdays and
Thursdays – we would have had to wait 5 days!) We figured we could rent a car
and drive 8 hours south to arrive in time to catch the flight from LA. This was
unfortunately a very pricy solution, but our only option. So quickly, we switched
the flight (which was a hefty penalty). As it turns out, instead of the flight from
Detroit arriving too late, the flight arrived early. We rushed to the gate just in time
to catch the original flight to Fiji. So once again we were hit with another stiff
penalty to change it back. …Ugggg! We quickly boarded the flight to Fiji. The
ticketing agent felt so terrible for us because of the costly fines they had imposed
on us, that he upgraded us to Business class at the bulk head. This was a
Godsend because it was an 11-hour flight. We arrived in Fiji on time, (as we went
through customs there were some Fiji musicians playing traditional music – very

cool!) and after a 4-hour layover we boarded the flight to Auckland. On the
flight, Jeff met Ian and Joyce McDonald of Taranaki, who invited us to get
together later on our voyage. At this point we were so relieved and somewhat
catatonic!
Although it’s a bit confusing…
Sunday, December 30
(never occurred due to the 18-hour time change)
We finally arrived in Auckland at 4:00 pm on Monday, December 31st.

Just in case you don’t know… New Zealand (Māori: Aotearoa [aɔˈtɛaɾɔa]) is an
independent island country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean. NZ is comprised
of two main landmasses—the North Island (Te Ika-a-Māui), and the South Island
(Te Waipounamu)—and around 600 smaller islands. The North Island and the
South Island are about the size of Michigan and Indiana. New Zealand is situated
900 miles east of Australia across the Tasman Sea. People often make the
mistake of thinking that NZ is part of Australia, but this is an insult to the people of
NZ. There are only 5 million people who live here. Auckland is the largest city.
Over three-quarters of the population live in the North Island 76.7% the other
23.3% of the population lives in the South Island. Over one-third population of
the North Island live in the Auckland region, (which is about the same size as
Chicago).

Our plan is to spend the first 2 weeks around Auckland so that we could
acclimate ourselves, buy a car, and get Jeff a keyboard and Ari a Saxophone.
Then, we would head down to the South Island for 2 ½ months before heading
back to the North Island for the other 2 ½ months. During the trip, Jeff has
meetings and visits scheduled with many of the NZ universities and polytechnic
institutes on both the North and South Islands – he scheduled our itinerary to
match up with pre-planned visits to these college campuses.
As soon as we landed, we all took a huge sigh of relief.
We had been traveling for 44 hours!!!
Fortunately, our luggage made it all the way to our final destination… which was
a miracle considering our kerfuffle. We bought new SIM cards for our phones at
the Spark retail store at the airport (our old numbers are no longer in use until we
return). We rented a car for just 4 days and drove about an hour north of
Auckland to our first house in Stanmore Bay in Whangaparaoa.

The beachfront Bach (holiday home) had stunning views and is situated directly
on the South Pacific. The house was set above a steep hill and had lush subtropical gardens and its own private direct beach access below. From its
perched location, the huge deck was north facing and had outstanding
panoramic views. https://www.vrbo.com/20025329ha to our first house.
After unpacking we went to a grocery store “New World” (which is their
equivalent Olson’s) to buy the basic food items we needed. We were too tired
to make dinner, so we walked to the local pub “Good Home” for burgers, fish &
chips, and shepherd’s pie.

After dinner we headed back to the house to catch our first sunset on the beach
and toast our arrival. We enjoyed a bottle of champagne as the sun slipped
down over the horizon. We felt so blessed to be here. All of the preparations,
planning, and sacrifices, we had all gone through to make this happen now had
come to fruition.

We headed back up the path through the garden and back to the house to
watch the ball drop in Auckland. New Zealand is one of the first countries past
the International date line, so we didn’t want to miss it. However, as much as we
had looked forward to ringing in the New Year, we just couldn’t make it. We
ended up falling asleep about 90 minutes before. We were just too exhausted.
But we were overjoyed to have finally made it here safely. We all slept like a rock.