February 1 Friday
South Island – Invercargill
We all woke up pretty early, so we decided to head to Snap to get a workout in
right away. After the workout, Elijah and Ari went back to the house to catch up
on AMPEL work and Chemistry and Algebra II.
Jeff and I went on a walk around town. Since we came with very little daily use
supplies, we’ve had to buy items that each house did not supply. Like fans (no
AC) a frying pan, a bathrobe, linens, etc.… To help off set costs we’ve started to
get into going to resale shops. Here in NZ they call resale shops “Hospice Stores”.
Our plan is to use these items while we’re here, and then donate them back to
Hospice upon our departure. At any rate, it’s been a lot of fun to check out the
different stores. A few of them have been literally a warehouse full. The fun part
about it is that they have all the necessary household supplies, but they also have
clothing for both men and women at insanely cheep prices. I bought a dress for
three dollars, and Jeff got some killer dress shoes for 6 dollars. With the exchange
rate we only spent a bit over 5 bucks. Every town that we go to has huge bins
on the corner of a street. Instead of going to the stores people just put their
donations in the bins and the store employees go around and collect the items
and take them back to the stores.
Another thing that is kind of bizarre is that people walk around in public with bare
feet. If you go to the market or a restaurant, you’ll see people walking around
barefoot. I love the barefoot loose dog frame of mind!
Today as we were just kind of wandering around we noticed a billboard on the
outside of a small mall. They don’t have big malls here. Usually there are about
10-15 small stores or so. Anyway, the billboard was titled “Sticky Fingers” with a
whole bunch of snap shots of people have stolen items from the different stores.
The stores cameras take a picture of the thief and displays the picture behind
the glass so that no one can take it down. Then all of the passersby’s write the
thief’s name on their picture. It’s terribly embarrassing but highly effective. The

person is blacklisted and publically humiliated. The crime rate here is almost
nothing. Jeff has read the NZ herald everyday for 6 weeks, and literally the only
thing that happens is car accidents and stupid things that the tourists do. It’s also
refreshing that their news and television stations are all very positive. Kiwi’s are
amazingly optimistic and exceedingly kind. Everywhere you go people always
make eye contact and have a warm greeting (even if you’re just passing by.
They consider theft as just plain rude, and crime of poor taste. They’re very polite
and serious rule followers.
The rain continued throughout most of the afternoon, but it started to clear by
evening. Later that night, we ate appetizers for dinner, and played another
game of Monopoly Wars. A beautiful rainbow came out to greet us just before
dark.

