February 10th Sunday
South Island – Christchurch
We received word that there were terrible fires that were happening up in
Nelson. We were scheduled to go to there for the next 3 weeks. The fires were
due to exceedingly hot temperatures here in the South Island. It didn’t take
much to set the breathtaking region ablaze. Houses and neighborhoods were
destroyed. The home we were going to stay in was jeopardized so the reservation
had been cancelled.
We decided to head back to Christchurch for a week, and then we would return
to Wanaka (between Queenstown and Hawea) for two weeks. We rented a
home on the other side of Christchurch from where we were before. This is the
link: https://www.vrbo.com/20040542ha
Our destination, Christchurch was about 6 hours away. We stopped at Lake
Pukaki in order to soak up our final views of Mt. Cook. From across the lake, the
white peaks literally punctured the skies on the horizon. The cobalt blue color of
this lake specifically is a due to “Glacial Flour”. They call it that because it’s made
from extremely fine rock particles that resemble the consistency of flour. The
sunlight hits the surface, then reflects the particles to seemingly illuminate the
water.
As I looked out on this grand expanse, I thought to myself how extremely magical
it was, and how fortunate we are to be here. Then, I thought about all of the
people up in Nelson. I worried about the wild life, and all of the historical artifacts
that would be lost. It seemed ironic that as I looked out over the water, I was
reminded about Nelson. This fire-water connection is proof that nature has its
own agenda which many times can be beyond our understanding. Mother
Nature thrives here in NZ. Every element is magnified; the water is bluer, the sun
is stronger, the wind is fiercer, the woods are taller, the rocks are larger. Everyday,
we’re amazed by the intensity of nature. Each night, as we put our heads on our

pillows, we become more deeply connected to this little country with such huge
diversity. We’re only 6 weeks in…I won’t want to leave.
Once we arrived, we unpacked, went grocery shopping at New World, and
then we had appetizers for dinner. We finished off the night with a game of
euchre (Elijah and I crushed them)

Images

