**South Island-Christchurch**

We woke up and headed right for Snap. It was great to be back at a gym
that was nice again. After that, Jeff and I took a long walk to Avonhead
Park and around the surrounding neighborhoods.

Once we returned, everyone decided that they needed to take care of
“Home Responsibilities”. That suck-up most of the day.

Jeff and I wanted to have Mexican for dinner, Elijah and Ari had another
plan… “UberEats”! Okay, so maybe you’ve heard of Uber? So, now they
have UberEats. What you do is go on to their website and select the
restaurant in your area. Once you decide where you want your food from,
then you select the Menu offering that you would like. You pay UberEats
and your meal arrives in less than 20 minutes. The closer the location-the
lower the price. Elijah got Burger King with a $6 fee and Ari got dumplings
from a Chinese restaurant for $7 fee. What will be next? I’m sure it would
be great for someone that is homebound, but I couldn’t wrap my mind
around where technology will lead us to in the next decade.

That night, we hung out and played an old card game that our grandmas
(Irene and Myrle) taught us called “Spite Malice”. Growing up, no one
seemed to know how to play. When Jeff and I realized that each other
could play we were thrilled. We had tried to teach Elijah and Ari how to
play when they were younger, but since it’s a complicated game we
figured we’d wait. So… tonight was the night! It was awesome to carry on
the tradition and were sure that Irene and Myrle were smiling down on us.