**South Island - Christchurch**

Jeff and I got up and went for a walk. Even for the morning it was hot. The
Kiwi’s keep saying that weather has been much warmer than usual this
summer. I think it’s probably rained maybe 5-6 times in the 6 weeks that
we’ve been here. This house has no AC, so it’s been pretty hot at night.
Very few places do.

Other interesting observation (similar to the UK) is that there are no driers,
small refrigerators, no screens on windows, heated towel bars, heat lamps
in the bathrooms, no garbage disposables, no coffee makers, and
everyone recycles EVERYTHING! I’m not talking just plastics, glass, metal,
paper, everyone also composts everything. We have almost no trash at
the end of a week.

So remember the VRBO home that Jeff and Elijah went to when they went
to the Phil Collins concert? They (Dino and Summer) found out that we
were coming back to Christchurch so they invited us over for dinner at their
house.

Dino is a Kiwi, Summer is Chinese. Dino has two boys and Summer has one.
When we arrived we also met 3 boys from Korea who were renting out the
room that Jeff and Elijah had. Dino is an entrepreneur who has many pots
boiling in various projects. We aren’t quite sure what Summer does… but
she works in some professional capacity. Their home is ultra modern. They
also have very unique style, with a fresh and funky vibe.

We were greeted with champagne and a tasty fish pate. Dino is also a
serious fly-fisherman so he made the pate with a trout he had caught. We
brought flowers, wine, steaks and sausages to grill. We were all in the
kitchen talking, as Dino prepared a salad. He was using a massive sized
bowl (and I mean outrageously gigantic) size. As we talked, he just kept
cutting up anything from the fridge. I’ve never seen a salad that huge. He
threw in there every vegetable and fruit he could get his hands on (even
bananas). He took me outside to his garden and we picked Nasturtiums
(which are edible flowers that have a peppery taste). When he was done,
the entire bowl was full. It was enough to feed the neighbors too.
Next, he grabbed the steaks and sausages and headed to the backyard.
I had been waiting for a Kiwi to say, “Let’s go fire up the barbie”. So, I had
to chuckle after he said it.

After everything was prepared we all sat down to their large table. We took
turns going around the table saying one thing that we were thankful for,
and then we ate. It was fantastic! The Korean boys finished off the salad.
Summer invited me to go to a fitness class with her the following day. So, I
was excited to see what it would be like here. Summer is incredibly fit and
only about 35 so I knew it would be a good workout just trying to keep up
with her.

We sat and talked for about 2 more hours, and then we needed to leave
because the boys had school the next day. Even though its summer here,
they go year around. The school systems here go on a completely different
schedule similar to the UK. They are in session for 6 weeks, then the have a
week off. They do this 6 times and then they have 6 weeks off instead of
the entire summer. It really makes much more sense than the way we do it.
That way, kids don’t have a large break of 12 weeks in which their learning
slips back.

Both Dino and Summer are such dynamic people. Positive, ambitious,
creative, and interesting. We said our goodbyes, knowing that I would see
Summer in the morning, but we would cross paths with them somewhere
down the road again.