February 13th Wednesday
South Island - Christchurch
Today I would hit the ground running… I headed out to meet Summer at
her gym called “Les Mills”. As I drove into the parking lot, I certainly wasn’t
prepared for what laid before me. The building was a huge 3 story highly
futuristic gym. There was a formal reception area where I received
authorization to enter as Summers guest. Summer teaches classes here on
the side. This place puts Planet Fitness to shame! Their equipment was topof-the-line. They have two fitness studios that accommodate up to 150
people each. They have 4 boxing rings, a spin lab, and an entire floor of
free weights and machines (roughly 200 different equipment options). They
also have over 180 different fitness classes like; Yoga, Tai Chi, Pilates, Judo,
Karate, and a ton more.
It felt like I stepped right into Disney World for athletes… and I mean serious
athletes. They have the most inspiring workout options and mind-blowing
fitness experiences beyond my wildest dreams. Here is just a sample of
what I’m talking about:
https://www.facebook.com/lesmillsnz/videos/216374422478480/
The class that I went to was a 75-minute session called “Body Balance”. Holy
smokes! I consider myself a moderately fit, pretty flexible, and somewhat
balanced 50-year-old woman. Yet, there were 70-year-old women that
put me to shame. The stamina and energy that was required to keep up
was like nothing I ever done before. Basically, I got my ass kicked! By the
time I left, I could barely feel my feet. Summer asked if I wanted to come
tomorrow so of course I accepted.
She said she could get Jeff
authorization too.

I collected myself as much as I could and headed to the salon to have my
hair done. Fortunately, since we came back to Christchurch I was able to
have the same hairdresser as before. Wendy is from Fiji. It was such a relief
to have someone who already knew my hair situation. Like before, she
brought me tea in the fancy teapot along with biscuits and chocolate. I
decided I should not get to used to this.
Once I got home Jeff and the kids were ready to go to Snap. They were
waiting on me because we only have one car, and it was too far away to
walk to. I decided I was a glutton for punishment so I joined them. Lord
knows what I was thinking? Anyway, we all got a good workout in, but I
have to say… I was pretty sore and tired when I went to bed that night.

