**South Island – Christchurch**

After my experience yesterday with Summer and Les Mills, I was eager for Jeff to
check it out with me. Summer met us at the reception desk, and she gave us a
tour around. When we were done with the tour we had about 15 minutes to kill
before the class so Jeff went to lift weights and Summer and I warmed up by
doing the rowing machines.

Next, we headed to a spinning class called “RPM”. It’s an indoor cycling workout
that is highly intense. The instructors simulate a virtual circuit by emulating
different types of terrain such as; hills flats, and mountain peaks. The room was
dark except for the stage where the instructors were. The bikes were arranged
very close to each other. We set up our bikes so that the seat and handles were
at the right height. Suddenly, the music started blasting and the instructors (who
had mics on) started yelling really loud to get us pumped up. The rest of the next
30 minutes we did intervals between sitting and standing. Each time trial was set
to the rhythm of the song that was blaring. At the same time, we adjusted the
tension back and forth by making it tighter or looser. Once we finished we were
dripping wet with sweat. I mean, the kind of sweat that your entire shirt is sopping
wet and you look like you’ve jumped in a lake. Here is an example of what I
mean. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwExLRQgKD8

Just as we caught our breath, Summer took us to another class. Called “Body
Pump”. This class shapes, tones and strengthens your entire body. It’s a
60-minute workout that challenges ALL of your major muscle groups. The
key to “Body Pump” is that the class focuses on training through the use
of high rates of repetition. This is supposed to build greater strength and
support lean body muscle. The rationale is based on conditioning and
stamina without creating bulk. Apparently, it puts your metabolism into
overdrive so that you can burn calories for a few hours after the workout.

Once again the music was super loud and really fast. The next 60minutes, we worked muscles we didn’t even know that we had. Much of
the work focused on abs. We had a feeling that we would certainly be
sore tomorrow.
Since we were already downtown. We thought we would check out the
earthquake memorial. On February 22, 2011 a 6.3 magnitude earthquake struck
Christchurch killing 185 people. Many survivors were seriously injured. About
25,000 houses were completely destroyed and more than half of all of the
buildings in the downtown had to be completely demolished. For Kiwi’s this is like
our 911. Although their cause was not because of terrorists, for them, it was just
as devastating. There are still many places that are in the process of being rebuilt.
Part of their memorial is an exhibit known as “185 Empty Chairs” The artist painted
185 chairs entirely in white. Each chair is completely different. As a mother, the
baby car seat was the most disturbing of all. The forces of nature don’t
discriminate their victims. We took a few moments in silent contemplation. We
reflected on the cities emotional wounds that continued to be haunted by more
than 361 aftershocks occurred for several weeks causing further damage, power
outages, and rock falls. Each tremor that occurred caused more and more fear
that another catastrophe would hit.

On our way out of the parking lot we spotted a wizard. No, I’m not kidding…a
wizard! Either he believes he’s one, or he liked to dress that way, or maybe it’s
part of his job or it could have even been that he was heading to a costume
party…we will never know. But, it certainly added some humor after a very
somber moment.

When we returned to the house we packed up and headed to the beach at
Scarborough Park. The golden sand beach is located on the coastline of the
Christchurch in a suburb called Sumner. Its 3,500 feet is bound by rocky
headlands. The beach slopes gently into the ocean. A rock wall runs the length
of the beach and separate the beach from the sidewalk. Nestled in the center
is a rock cave that you can go into if it’s low tide. It was fun because you could
climb on top of it to have a great view of the water. We laid out for about 30
minutes then swam in the water to cool off before we left.
Since today is Valentines Day, Jeff and I decided to celebrate tomorrow in line
with Michigan’s 18-hour time change.