February 15th Friday
South Island–Christchurch
We woke early and got busy on our” back home” responsibilities. We
wrapped them up around 1:00 and then headed to Snap. After our
workout we swung by the Salvation Army to look for old board games to
play with. We headed home to get busy on our “home responsibilities”.
Once we wrapped them up, Jeff and I got dressed up for our big date for
Michigan Valentines.
Elijah and Ari Jeff dropped us off downtown. We really had no idea what
it was that we wanted to see. Whenever we’re in a city we like to just
wander around with no true destination in mind. Basically we stumble onto
things just by chance. The element of surprise is the thing that makes it so
much fun.
Our first stop was at the “Christchurch Cathedral”. This gothic revival
structure was built in 1864. Unfortunately, it was severely damaged by the
2011 earthquake. The congregation has worked for years to raise the
money needed to rebuild and reinstate the cathedral but have not yet
raised enough funds to do so. As I explained earlier, many of the older
churches are slowly dying here in NZ. With fewer and fewer members, they
are not able to keep up the costly repairs that they these old buildings
require. So many of these beauties are boarded up and left abandon. The
contemporary new age churches are thriving while the traditional churches
are slowly disappearing.

In front of the church, in “Cathedral Square” a “Stone Cairn” was erected
during a public political protest. The cairn was built in 2010 when about
4000 people gathered in there to protest against the the “Councilors of
Commission” for legal issues regarding decision making in Canterbury. The
protesters brought stones from rivers around Canterbury to create the
Cairn. It is an important symbol of people's desire to see democracy
restored. It is the wish of the people who laid those stones that they remain
as a sign of justice.
Next, we found ourselves heading down an alley where three open
buildings came together as one huge outdoor area. We realized it was one
lounge called “Strange & Company”. We grabbed a seat and enjoyed a
martini. The décor was vintage and funky.
Following that, we wandered around a bit until we came to another quirky
place called “Smash Palace”. It started out as an old bar named
“Goodbye Blue Monday”. But, the building was destroyed in the 2011
earthquake. The location is now spotted with small shacks and the remains
of what was salvaged after the quake. It looks like something off the set of
a Bob Marley flick. It’s a symbol of the resiliency of the Kiwi’s of Christchurch.
But, that’s the charm of it. It was packed! We grabbed a beer and a seat.
This was interesting to people watch. There were young adults, elderly
retirees, and little kids running around. We chuckled when we noticed that
the waitress was serving food and drinks with a lit cigarette in her mouth.
The music was lively and cheerful. It felt kind of like a commune of hippies.
Once we finished our beer, we headed off to our next surprise.
As we made our way through the city, we came upon “The Chalice
Sculpture”. This art form celebrates the 150th Anniversary of the founding
of Christchurch. The Chalice lights up at night. with one floodlight situated
inside the base of the cone and one spotlight aimed at the exterior. There
are 42 aluminum shapes which represent the leaves of native trees. There
are many sculptures in many of NZ cities. There is also a ton of artistic graffiti
splashed upon the walls of many of the cities.
Further on, we found an award winning restaurant called “Not Without
You”. We sat outside just as the sun was beginning to set. The ambiance
was spectacular! We enjoyed a glass of wine and shared a cheese board.
This was our favorite!

Finally, we spotted an indoor mall where they had an IMAX – “Dining
Experience”. It’s roughly $100 for the movie and gourmet dinner. We had
already come close to our budget so we decided to skip it. There was a
pub next door so we thought we’d check it out. It was called “Cleaver &
Company”. We were seated on the second floor balcony so we could
people watch on one side of us and on the other side of us was a TV with
a rugby match was going on. We ordered Onion Rings (I know…I knowbut at this point we were living on the edge). So why not go for the gusto?

Valentines Day Success!
Images

