February 17th Sunday
South Island- Wanaka
We woke and began our normal routine of packing up and readying the house for
departure. Today, we would be heading back to the west coast, to Wanaka. Wanaka
is the neighbor village of Hawea (where we were before). In the other direction lies
Queenstown. Wanaka shares many of the characteristics that draw tourists to
Queenstown; the mountains, the lakes and the outdoors. Yet, it has a far smaller profile.
In many ways, it's like the little brother to Queenstown (Although the locals consider it
the cooler little brother). It is most definitely one of the most picturesque towns in the
South Island. It’s flanked by a magnificent lake and giant mountains. During the
summer (Nov-April) the area is full of people relaxing and playing around the lake.
During the winter (June-Sep) the population doubles and it becomes a ski and
snowboard mecca. It reminds us a lot of Aspen, Colorado. The vibe is posh but still
welcoming.
We will be there for 2-weeks. The house that we would stay at was a great deal. The
people who were suppose to stay there cancelled at the last minute, so we ended up
getting it for half of what it was on the website. It’s a great location. Here is the link:
https://www.airbnb.co.nz/rooms/30385266?guests=1&adults=1
Along the way, we drove back through Pukaki to get the great views of Mt. Cook
again. When we arrived we went to “New World” to get groceries. They had a deal
where if you spent $150 (NZ) you get a free water bottle. They’re the really nice
aluminum. I’ve been collecting them throughout the trip.
We unpacked then took a walk around the neighborhood to get our bearings. This
home backs up to a mountain called “Iron Mountain”. After we returned from our walk
we ate appetizers for dinner and watched “Kurzgesagt” (which are science videos
that explain things such as space, the human body, humanity, ecology etc.) Of course
we had popcorn, and headed to bed.

Mount Cook

