**South - Island Wanaka**

We woke and got busy on our “Back Home Responsibilities”. It’s been
a bit difficult with our internet reception throughout the time since
we’ve been here. So it can be challenging to get things done and
meet deadlines.

Later in the day, Jeff and I walked downtown (5 km) to get Jeff a
haircut. While he was at his appointment, I wandered around town to
check out the scene. Downtown Wanaka has a vibrant mix of
restaurants, cafes, shops with plenty of ambience to relax and enjoy
the amazing scenery. I walked to the beach and followed the
sidewalk to the end. On the edge of the sidewalk there were brick
pavers with titles and dates on them. It was kind of like a historical
timeline of important events around the world. It started before Christ
and ended with 2000. As I followed it to the other end, I found it very
interesting to see the order of things in a concrete representation
Once Jeff was finished, I showed him what I had found. It struck us that
of the entire history of the world, we humans have only been here for
a short time. It was a reminder that we are all just temporary visitors
here on Earth. How fortunate that we live in the time that we do. It’s
all so fleeting if you think about it. One more reason to be thankful and
to appreciate the little time we have here and now.
After that, we headed to Salvation Army and a Hospice store. Some
of the houses that we are booked to stay at do NOT include linens. So we needed to get 3 sets of sheets and pillowcases and 4 towels. I had
been keeping my eye out for some because we found out that if we
rented them it would cost us $165 NZ dollars. I figured we could buy
used ones from a hospice and then return them to another hospice
when we leave. The best deal I could find so far was $ 80 NZ dollars.
But, today we stumbled on a gold mine at the Salvation Army.
Everything was marked half off and buy one get one free. So in the
end I got everything for $35 dollars (which is about $24 American
dollars). What a deal!

Next, Jeff and I picked up some groceries at New World. We had too
much to carry, so we called Elijah and Ari to meet us with the car so
they could take all of the linens and food back to the house for us. On
their way they picked up Subway for themselves and Jeff and I walked
home.

Later that evening, we watched the “Lord of the Rings” part 1, and
had popcorn again. We realize the pattern that we’re falling into with
the popcorn thing…we just can’t help ourselves to say no!