**South Island - Wanaka**

We woke early to work on all of the things we need to do as far as our
“Back Home Responsibilities”. As the morning slipped into afternoon,
we decided to put our work aside and unplug. We needed to get out
and enjoy the rest of the day.

We walked to 5 km to Pro Active to work out. After we worked out we
walked another 3 km town to wander around. By the time we got
home we had already walked close to 5 miles.

Jeff and Ari were going to go jogging so I thought I’d try to run too.
Anyone who knows me well knows that I hate running, but I was trying
to be supportive. Anyway, it was a hot day and the sun was piercing.
We hadn’t even completed a mile when I suddenly I went into heat
stroke. All at once, my head felt like it was going to explode! I’ve
always had issues with heat. But, this was terrible. I was so worried
because the pain was excruciating. Jeff and Ari called Elijah and had
him take me back home. I immediately jumped into a cold shower
and then laid in bed with ice packs on my head. I took some ibuprofen
and the fan was blowing on me. After a bout an hour, I was fine. I will
have to be more careful of exposure. I had already had my lesson
about sunburns back in Whangeria/Parua Bay. I suppose this was my
hard lesson about heat.

Later that evening, Ari made some amazing dumpling Soup. It was just
what I needed. After dinner, we all watched the movie “Crazy Rich
Asians”. Jeff taught Ari how to make homemade popcorn, and we
headed to bed early.