**South Island – Wanaka**

We woke and went back to where we left off on our “Home Responsibilities.
Elijah finished the bulk of his deadline with AMPLE. Ari still plugged away with
Algebra ll and Chemistry. Jeff is busy trying to reflect on his meetings with
administrators, organize from behind the scenes with NMC and to prepare and
organize details from CUMC. I have been busy with my book promotions and
online classes.

Jeff took an early run, and Ari took her own run in the afternoon. I was feeling
better but I certainly didn’t want to push it, so I took a long walk on my own. I
often like to take an adventure hike alone. It gives me time to reconnect and
allows me to open up myself to the subtle signs around us that I sometimes
overlook. I’m usually on a quest to find something a symbol that represents
something for the future or in memory of the past.

I headed past downtown through the marina to “Eely Point Reserve”. It’s a
popular place for boat docking and picnicking. The marina was very busy.
Many boats were moored in the water. I continued on to where the river runs out
into Bremner Bay. I found a spot where the river is channeled through a tap
before it flows into Lake Wanaka. When we lived in Switzerland they had these
all over the place. Because the water is immaculately clean you can drink it
right from your hand. Backpacker were congregated around it to fill up their canteens before they headed out on their treks. It’s completely safe to drink
because NZ has very strict enforcement on keeping the land, water, and air pure.
When I returned we made taco salad, played Yatzee and Spite Malice. After
that, we watched Monty Python and had popcorn.