**South Island – Wanaka**

*PART 1*

“New Life”:
Jeff and I got up early to go to church. We convinced Elijah to come with
us to check it out. Since Wanaka is a small town, there are only 3 churches;
Catholic, Presbyterian, and a new and trendy church called “New Life”.
Because the majority of church’s that we’ve been to here in NZ are
Presbyterian, we thought we’d check out the contemporary one.
It was located in an industrial warehouse that was attached to a liquor
store. We were greeted at the door with a handshake and a smile. We
made our way through a room with chairs in it, and sat to the side in the
back. Up front there was no pulpit just enough room for the praise band to
be. The entire service was over 2 hours long. Of the two hours, we only sat
for about 25 minutes.

It was interesting because many of the worshippers were barefoot. The
message was; To find that quiet place inside of yourself to hear what God
is telling you. They also stressed the idea of living with integrity so that you
can have a clear conscience. Both of which we fully agree.
Next, the praise band played 3 songs that lasted between 10-15 minutes
each. They just kept repeating and repeating the same verses over and
over again. This lasted over 45 minutes. Jeff was squirming… need I say
more?

The scripture reading was from (1st Kings 19-20) About Elijah on Mount Sinai.
Which seemed fitting for our Elijah, because after the service we had
already planned to climb Roy’s Peak. We appreciated their message and
were in agreement with them up till then.

But, quickly the whole message took a hard right turn, and things started to
feel pretty uncomfortable. They were ultra hung up with the fact that we’re
all sinners and we have to “fight” against the forces of darkness. (We don’t
believe that there is an underworld where evil exists. Or that we have to
ward off anything). We believe in the powers of good in a loving-purposeful
world. That we have freewill, and we should be grateful because we know
that our God loves us and wants us to be happy). Needless to say, we
were struggling to make sense of it from here.

They continued further about protecting ourselves from the devil. That their
charge was to win the “fight”. Then, while in prayer, they started speaking
in a language we have never heard. We’re pretty sure it wasn’t in Maori.
People were waving their arms around and yelling out stuff all at the same
time. We couldn’t figure out if they were speaking in tongues or what?
Next, they broke into small groups and did a “laying of the hands” to each
other. We didn’t quite know what to do. We were confused because we
kept waiting for the Benediction, but it never came. So we just sat there
waiting because we didn’t want to be rude. Eventually, we asked a lady
sitting next to us if the service had ended or not. She said that the official
service was over, but that they extend it for people who need more
healing.

In retrospect, we felt that their intent was good, and we certainly didn’t go
there to judge anyone, but rather to seek out a new perspective on others
faith. For us though, it felt a bit “cult like” from our first impression. Elijah’s
“takeaway” was that God is in nature, and that he feels most connected
when in; the woods, on the water, upon a river, or up in a mountain. These
places are his Sanctuaries… For Jeff and I, we held on to the good
message and let go of the rest. You just never know unless you try.

*PART 2*

Roy’s Peak
We headed home, packed up our backpacks with all of the necessities;
lots of layers to wear, sunscreen, bug spray, 2 waters each, PB & J
sandwiches, nuts, and chocolate. We were ready!!! We had waited to do
this “ultimate” hike because we wanted to be sure that it would be a cool
enough day. (I didn’t want to get heat stroke again). The climb is entirely
exposed to the sun. Having no shade will make it even more challenging.
Fortunately, the temperature was only a high around 70. We had a bit of
clouds that would help cover us a bit, so we had nature on our side.
Off we went…Our goal… to climb “Roy’s Peak” from the ground to the
Summit. This mountain is one of the most popular mountain hikes in all of
NZ. What makes it special to us is that its range sits directly in front of our
house. Each evening we sit on our porch and have a full-on view of it. After
a few day of staring at it, this would be the day that we would meet it up
close and personal.

In total, we would traverse over 16 miles (26 KM) up, up, and up! Including
tight switchbacks that crisscrossed the entire face of the mountain. The
gradient was incredibly steep. So it required a “high fitness level” because
of the strenuous exertion throughout the entire Trek. This was not a mountain
to climb if you have any conditions. There are but a few level stretches on
the trail to allow you to rest. It’s completely uphill. So you need to have both
muscular strength and cardiovascular strength added with a ton of
endurance to make it to the top!

We started the hike at exactly 1:00 PM. The majority of the hikes here in NZ
have a trail head with a bulletin board that posts important information;
such as a map and states what precautions to be mindful of, and so forth.
We always read them on the way in just incase there’s something we need
to know. On this bulletin, a lady had handwritten a note to climbers that
she lost her wedding ring. If anyone found it to please return it. We felt
terrible for her… How upsetting would that be? So, it gave us a purpose –
“A Quest” to find the missing ring!!!

The first portion of the trek led us up through “Alpine Meadows” where we
were joined by sheep and quails. The brisk wind blew our hair about.
Throughout this portion of the mountain “Wild Rose Bushes” and huge
patches of “Lavender” carpeted the hillside. It was just lovely! What a
beautiful gift from nature! I smiled with gratitude.

As we ascended further, we made our way through “Tussock Grasslands”
where the sounds of grasshoppers and skylarks surrounded us as we
climbed. I don’t ever remember seeing so many wild rabbit’s one place in
my entire life. There were tons of them everywhere! As we proceeded on,
I remained steady. I didn’t want my blood pressure to go up too much and
risk another heat stroke.

As we continued even farther, the entire habitat quickly began to change
again. It lost it’s the majority of its greenery and slowly turned into rocks and
boulders. Here, the yellow finches sang songs filled with rejoicing. As I was
walking, I was reflecting about the scripture reading (1st Kings 19: 11-18)
Where Elijah goes up to Mount Sinai. I thought to myself… I wonder if my
Elijah is connecting this?

Ari gave me her walking stick, so I used it for a while, but then decided it
was just one more thing to mess with. Jeff and the kids were ahead of me,
and they were laughing they said “You look just like Moses Mom” Somehow
the Moses thing got warped into Gandalf. As we continued on, we all kept
our eyes peeled for the missing ring. That’s when it hit me…. Holy Cow! Here
we are… climbing this extraordinary mountain. One of the most
photographed mountains in all of NZ. Near the same places that The Lord
of the Rings was filmed. And here we are on a quest to find the golden ring!
We all thought that was hysterical! But, as I climbed, I thought deeper I
started playing a little game of my own. As far as characters are
concerned; Who would be who from the movie? Let’s see…Jeff would be

Aragorn, I’m already Gandalf, Elijah would be Lagolas, and Ari would rock
it as Eowyn. We have watched all three “Hobbit” movies and all three “Lord
of the Rings” movies I’m not even sure how many times. But my secret
casting kept my mind busy as we ascended higher and higher.
Once we were nearly to the top, there is a narrow spine that runs from the
crest and juts out into the valley. When you walk out there it’s like having
the best seat in the world. The breathtaking views over Lake Wanaka, and
its islands and bays was just so majestic. I know for the rest of my life I can
easily come back to this sacred place in my mind. The 360-degree view
provided great inspiration from the earth, sea, and sky. The surrounding
crowns and veils that make up the Southern Alps/Kā Tiritiri o te Moana, were
just as astonishing. Then, for the triple whammy, the mighty snow-capped
Mount Aspiring/Tititea immediately put me into overload!!! At this point I’m
feeling like this is all just a dream, or someone was tricking me with “CGI”
Computer Generated Images. It felt so over the top’ that it couldn’t have
possibly been real. I stood there trying to take it all in, layer after layer.
Once we reached the pinnacle it was magical! WE DID IT! We could see for
miles and miles in every direction. The time was 5:00 PM. It had taken us 4
solid hours of climbing to get there. Once at the very tiptop there was a
concrete circle about 5 feet in diameter with a metal beam to mark it
location. We carefully peered down. There were no gates or wires or
fences. We were literally “On Top of the World” Just one little slip, and it
would all be over. We were so high that the clouds were below us. The
temperature was about 30 degrees. The wind was fiercely blowing. We just
sat there frozen peering at the wilderness 5,000 feet below to emblaze
those moments on our hearts forever. As we turned and began our descent
Elijah said “This is the best thing I’ve ever done in my life, This is my religion”.
One would think that turning around and heading back down the
mountain would be much easier. If you think I ‘m kidding, I’m not! The
downhill walk is much more difficult… it’s terrible on your knees, hips, ankles
calves… and let’s not talk about blisters!
As we ascended further down into the Tussock Grasslands. We stopped to
eat our PB & J’s and the chocolate. We were all spread out (not sitting next
to each other) and we each claimed our own space on the mountain side.
It was superb! We just sat there. No talking, no music, no nothing… Just the sights, smells, sounds, of the mountain. We couldn’t have been more
content. We sat in silence for quite a while. As I finished a prayer of thanks,
the sun was just beginning it’s “evening bewitching hour.” I looked out into
the west, I could see a beautiful rainbow!
It was mystical and
unforgettable!

We finally made it down and back to the parking lot by 7:30. It had taken
us 2.5 hours to scale back down. What an accomplishment!!! We were all
sore, exhausted, hungry, thirsty, but totally fulfilled! As soon as we got home,
we all quickly ran to the front deck overlooking Roy’s Peak (the Mountain
we had just climbed). We enjoyed a celebratory champagne toast! Wow!
What an accomplishment! We never spoke about our “sacred time” on
the mountain, and we probably never will. But the beautiful thing was, we
were together in our separateness. As the sun eventually set, the kids asked,
“When are we doing the next one”? We laughed and smiled… and said…
one day at a time...