February 26th Tuesday
South Island – Wanaka
The bulk of the day was spent on working to stay ahead of ourselves with “Back
Home Responsibilities”. Once we got to the point that we had crossed eyes from
too much computer time, Jeff and I decided to take a walk into town.
We have been here in Wanaka for quite a while so the 3-mile trek in to town and
back has become pretty standard for us. We especially enjoy going into town
just to people watch. There are so many people from so many different places.
It’s such a melting pot of nationalities. The locals only make-up a small portion
of the population. The tourists are mainly made up of Chinese/Japanese,
German/French, Americans/Canadians. After checking out today’s scene, we
headed to the library. Libraries are the only place that people can have free
wifi. So, the majority of the people there are backpackers who have come down
from the mountains to make contact with family and loved ones. There is no
service while “Treking”. Some villages just don’t have it. So instead of checking
out books the library is flooded with people just trying to reconnect.
Ari was in charge of making dinner tonight. She made a lovely shrimp pasta with
peppers, onions, and garlic. She’s such an amazing chef! She’s not afraid to
experiment and substitute ingredients to make a new creation.
After dinner we watched The Lord of the Rings 3, Ari made popcorn. It’s been
so much fun to see in real life the places that the scenes were filmed. The
majority of the fight scenes occurred her in the South Island, and the Hobbit town
and the shire were in the North Island.

Images

