Thursday February 28th
South Island - Wanaka
Today we had one of the most memorable hikes ever. It was so uniquely
diverse that it should be termed as a “Mountain Hiking Experience”. We
headed about 50 km west of Wanaka to the “Matukituki Valley” located in
the “Mount Aspiring National Park” “Tititea” is the Māori name for “Mount
Aspiring” it means “steep peak of glistening white”. Most of the Southern
Alps/Kā Tiritiri o te Moana were born over 220 million years ago. Our goal
today was to hike 12 km to the base of Rob Roy Glacier.
The Trek started at the “Raspberry Creek” car park. To get there we had to
travel 40 km on a deeply pitted and sharp-gravel, one lane road. We
crossed through a privately owned ranch that seemed to go on forever. The
pastures are filled with; elk, deer, cows, and sheep. The last 10 km was
especially hair-raising because the flooded creeks created washouts (Fords)
on the road. These were quite considerable so it was recommended that
only 4 WD vehicles should be used. They posted warning signs for standard
cars because they would not be tall enough to make the crossing.
Jeff and Elijah were much more confident with our “Blue Low Rider” than Ari
and I were. The wheels were completely underwater! I just kept thinking…”
What if the washout swells and we get stuck out here in the middle of
nowhere over night? There was no cell service, no internet, not even

electricity lines. The only sign of humanity was the ranch holders home at
the beginning of the journey”.
The few cars that we watched as they crossed had a tall frame. Against
better judgment, “Blue Low Rider” successfully (but barely) made it through.
There were 8 more Fords ahead… but, somehow we made it through every
single one safely to reach the car park around 2:00 pm.
Once we arrived, we loaded up our hiking gear and set out across a
beautiful valley along side of “Raspberry Creek.” The path was filled with
cows. I don’t mean just a few cows standing around, I mean it was whole
herd of them blocking the hiking path. We nicely scooted them to the side
as they just stood there checking us out. As we meandered around them
following the creek until it merged with the West Matukituki River.
From there, we continued on, crossing over a tipsy swing bridge. As we
reached the middle of the swing bridge the view gave us a little taste of
what was yet to come. We could see The Rob Roy Glacier way ahead in the
distance.
This trek is not just a “stroll along” route. It climbs up and down with many
sharp curves. The sheer drops and thin paths make it more treacherous. We
had to watch our every step (being mindful of rocks, stumps, and roots). One
mistake, and we’d fall about 200-300 feet onto large boulders in the raging
river below.
As we traveled up-steam on the West Matukituki River towards the Rob Roy
Glacier, we followed a massive ridgeline that extended along side of a
dense forest. The native mountain beech and silver beech trees lined the
crystal clear river (and its tributary streams). The river originates from the Rob
Roy Glacier.
Next, the path rises even more into a thick Rainforest filled with many
different types of ferns and mosses. The cicadas were singing along with the
yellow parakeets. This peaceful and fragrant Rainforest was such a blessing
to take in.
Finally, the greenery began to disappear but was replaced by sheer-rock
cliffs with massive half exposed boulders.
These rock giants nestle
themselves up to the peak just before snow fields begin.

This is a dangerous route because there are many avalanches that occur
here. You can tell by noticing where other big boulders have fallen and
crashed into large trees and shattered them with great force. While passing
this part of the ridge, we were weary to step under the carefully perched
ancient rocks for fear of disturbing them. It sure added to the excitement of
our journey.
Once we had gone as far as what’s safe, we took a break. There, we soaked
it all in on one one of the large boulders. I have gotten into the habit of
celebrating each climb by the four of us sharing a chocolate bar. It’s a nice
little reward that we all look forward to during the climb. Jeff and Elijah gave
up their ration, Ari and I were pleased to take it off their hands.
Just as before… we sat in silence…and once again we were filled with awe.
There we were, perched upon a massive boulder just at the glaciers edge
we could see 11 different waterfalls rushing down from the glacier onto the
cliffs and into the river. It was both meditative and hypnotic! Once again, I
was filled with gratitude and great peace. The blessings of Gods imagination
through nature inspired me to see how connected we are to these treasures.
We could have stayed all day but it was already 5:30 pm and we certainly
didn’t want to spend the night in the car in the middle of nowhere. If we
got stuck in one of the Fords on the way back, that would not be good.
Fortunately, we made it through all of the Fords. Amen!
As we traveled back towards Wanaka, we spotted two huge waterfalls just
a short hike from the road. There was a sign that read “Wishbone Falls” We
just had to stop! Elijah and Jeff went first. Little did they know that they had
stepped in a very deep bog! Elijah had his sandals on so he was okay, but
Jeff sunk down and his gym shoes were sopping. Then I came along. I
thought I’d outsmart them by going around the bog and entering from the
side to get to the gate. This too was a terrible mistake, I sunk I all the way
down to my belly button. My pink adidas were now brown. Finally, the
smartest of the family (Ari) took her shoes and socks off and waded right up
the middle and reached the gate with ease.
Once we all got to the waterfalls we could see why it was called “Wishbone
Falls” because it divides about half way down. We could walk right up to it.
Its mist was refreshing and I laid down in the green grass below and looked

up from the bottom. The sun was at the “Bewitching Hour”. My favorite time
of the day. As the suns rays hit the waterfall it created a brilliant rainbow just
above my head. Another ah-ha moment from God!
I have to say, that we looked like a bunch of wet rats by the time we got
back to Wanaka. We needed to pick up stuff for dinner, so we walked into
New World with soggy shoes, smelling like bug spray and sweat, our hair had
been whipped up and tangled from our hike, and I’m pretty sure it was
obvious that we had just gotten back from a huge adventure.
When we got home, we all showered, Jeff and Elijah BBQ cheese burgers.
We sat and watched Marvel Movie #1 Iron Man. We were exhausted but
completely fulfilled.

Images

