February 3rd Sunday
South Island– Lake Hawea
Today we left Invercargill which is at the bottom of the South Island and headed
towards Queenstown on the west coast. It’s known as an extreme sport mecca;
skydiving, paraponting, hang-gliding, and mountain climbing are just a few of
the thrilling options for those looking for an adrenaline rush. In fact, bungee
jumping was created here.
The Queenstown area is a very popular place to visit, which also makes it a very
expensive destination. With money being tight, we found a nice place about 2
hours north of Queenstown in the small town of Hawea. Between the two cities
lies the city of Wanaka. Because Hawea has very few amenities we would need
to go to Wanaka for basic supplies (grocery, gas, etc.).
As we traveled closer to Queenstown, the road was nestled between the Eyre
Mountains and the Hector Range. We first approached the city of Kingstown
which lies at the southern tip of Lake Wakatipu. Conversely, Queenstown is
located on the northern tip of Lake Wakatipu. The road, which winds along the
lake is called the “Devils Staircase”. The tightly turning narrow road gives justice
to its name. It offers spectacular views as it twists along the turquoise shores.
Then, we came upon “The Remarkables” mountain range. The range has sharply
rising peaks that create an impressive backdrop for their reflection along the
waters. It is called “The Remarkables” because it is one of only two mountain
ranges in the entire world which runs directly north and south.
As we entered the outskirts of Queenstown we would need to go up, up, and up
over a huge divide by way of the “Crown Range Road”. There are only two ways
to drive between Queenstown and Wanaka, either “Crown Range Road” or the
route through Cromwell. While the “Crown Range Road” is a shorter distance,
the travel time is much longer because the road is seriously challenging. It is
definitely the most memorable. It is the highest road in all of New Zealand. Its

altitude and endless zigzags bring many hazards such as; 90 degree switchbacks,
falling rocks, and landslides.
Once we had traveled half-way up we reached “Arrow Junction”. But, when
we traveled to the highest point that cars could travel we arrived at “The Roaring
Meg”. It describes the turbulent stream that plunges into the “Kawarau River”
near Cromwell. It’s said to be named after a red-headed barmaid named
Maggie Brennan. Maggie kept law and order in her grogshop (or low class bar
room) by the force of her voice and short-fused Irish temper. It didn’t take the
miners long to equate the sound and fury of the mountain torrent with Maggie’s
boisterous character. Her voice is now muted by a hydro-electric power station,
but her name and the legend lives on. If you park at the “Roaring Meg” there is
an overlook that you can get 360 degree views of the valley. If you are up for
the challenge you can take the hike up to the very summit which is named “The
Pisa”. We decided that we would come back another day to take it on.
Our plan was to get groceries in Wanaka and then head on to our 6th house in
Hawae. Here is the link: https://www.vrbo.com/20020953ha?unitId=3744550.
Hawae is really just a tiny little village located along the shoreline of the lake in
the middle of absolutely nowhere. The 30-minute drive from Wanaka to Hawae
was tight- we were smashed in like sardines! We sat with eggs, bread, and
produce scattered amongst our already jammed low-rider.
Once we unpacked and settled in, Jeff and I went on a long, long walk to stretch
out our legs. We walked down to the lake to check out the sights. The lake was
crystal blue! So blue like the kind of blue that you can’t even find the right word
for. The reason why it’s so blue is because it’s the direct run off from the glaciers.
The quality is pristine! In fact, we could drink straight from it, and when I put my
hand into it, it didn’t even look like it was underwater. The waves were so clear
that you could see entirely thorough them.
We followed the “Foreshore Trek” past the only mini store in town and then
walked parallel to the ridge line along the side of the Mountain. Somehow or
another we got a bit turned around along the way. Actually, we had most
definitely gotten turned around. So by the time we returned we had walked
another 10 km! We had stuffed peppers for dinner and headed to bed after
watching a few episodes of “Modern Family”.

Images

