February 4th Monday
South Island – Hawea
Jeff and Elijah had heard yesterday that Phil Collins was playing tonight in
Christchurch which is about 6 hours away. So, they quickly booked their tickets,
packed-up and headed out. Because the concert didn’t even begin until 8 pm,
they would need to stay the night in Christchurch.
Unfortunately, all of the motel rooms were booked because of the concert. But,
Jeff found a room through Airbnb that was attached to someone’s house. They
prepaid it to keep it reserved. But when they arrived to the house, they were
greeted at the door with surprise that they had been swindled. The person that
answered explained that they must have got the wrong address because they
had lived there for years and its never been an Airbnb home. The virtual person
had taken the money and sent them to a bogus house.
At this point the concert was about to start and they were not anxious to sleep
in the car. Quickly they found another Airbnb that was connected to the hosts
house. They had no other option so they booked it. When they arrived at the
house, this time they were greeted with welcomes and a smile. The hosts; Dean
and Summer were going to the concert too. After the concert was over, they
walked back to their house and Dean and Summer offered a nightcap and 2
hours of conversation.
In the meantime, Ari and I had the house to ourselves back in Hawea. We
enjoyed every second of it! I gave my self a manicure, took a hot shower, and
did some watercolor painting. Ari went straight to work on her cinematography
videos. Later, I watched the sunset, and we played Yahtzee while watching
Modern Family.

Images

