**South Island – Hawea**

Today we decided that we would double back the 2 hours and go back to
Queenstown. Remember… on our way in to Hawea we had driven by, but we
didn’t have time to stop. Well we figured we would go check out the scene and
get a workout in at Snap on top of it. Queenstown is a very busy place that’s
very expensive, but its also at the heart of all things tourist here in NZ.
They have “extreme everything” it’s kind of like Aspen, CO on steroids! They have
a “ride” that can be rented for a pretty penny. It’s called a “shark boat”. It’s a
submersible, high-speed craft decorated as a shark that rolls, dives, and cuts
hairpin turns up to 50 miles per hour. As it surfaces, it jumps entirely out of the
water. It looked like a pretty wild ride that goes across, above, and under the
water.

We headed to lunch at a place called “Surreal” which had above street seating.
It was once again very hot and had little shading so it was hard to try to ignore
the fact that we were dripping. The meal was mediocre but we were hungry so
it served its purpose.

The kids took off to go find sunglasses, so Jeff and I walked around and took in
the vibe of the buzzing crowds. After we tired ourselves with people watching
we headed out towards the gardens. There, we discovered a very odd tree. It’s
called “Monkey Puzzle”. Its real name is “Araucaria”. It is an evergreen that
produces edible nuts that are very rare. It grows about 5 feet wide and 100 feet
tall. It has existed for over 200 million years, and has a life-cycle of 1,000 years! It
is often described as a living fossil because of its longevity. It is endangered, in
fact there are few that are remaining. It is the national tree of Chile. The leaves
feel like wood and look like origami. How fortunate to actually see one!

Before we headed for home we stopped at the local Snap for a much-needed
workout. One would think that perhaps we should just head home after that. We
had a pretty tough work out because the facility was so awesome.
Yet, as we traveled up again through the “Crown Range Road” through the
“Roaring Meg”. The “Pisa” Alpine trail that we had passed by before was calling
for us to join it. So we decided to give it a whirl. The top has an altitude of over
4,000 ft. So, it is considered alpine where there is little vegetation.
We hiked up, up, up! It was hot. I mean dry hot. Of course we didn’t have our
water bottles and we were not properly prepared. The climb became
challenging pretty quick. Ari and Elijah started out with a BANG! Jeff and I
played it steady as we ascended the first 15 (YES 15) switchbacks.
Then Ari started to lag off and hang with us. Eventually, Jeff pushed on with
stamina to catch up with Elijah. Then, Ari and I slugged through till the finish. She
played “Eye of the Tiger” over and over, and over again on her cell phone. It
provided for comedic relief and the momentum (even though silly) to keep
going.

Once we reached the summit the view was outstanding! We could see the
whole river valley in the distance. The added bonus was that the sun was
beginning its rest as evening approached. You know… that bewitching time of
the evening right before sunset where everything looks magical and touched by
the shimmering rays upon the landscape. This was the highest road in all of New
Zealand, and we had the claim to say we had conquered it! We certainly lucked
out again, our timing was impeccable, (although it was just dumb luck). We
would have that climb etched in our memories forever. I can tell you one thing,
I’ll never hear the “Eye of the Tiger” again without remembering the “Pisa” hike.