**South Island- Hawea**

We woke with great anticipation! Today would be an exceptional one! We
would see; Tasman Glacier, Fox Glacier, Franz Josef Glacier and Mount Cook
(the mightiest mountain in NZ) all by helicopter.
We drove about 4 hours on Haast Highway (or state road 6). Our tour was based
out of Fox Glacier (the town below, not the glacier itself). There, we would begin
our helicopter ride.

The Haast (which is only two lanes) provides entertainment of its own along the
way. It’s a gorgeous scenic route. There are sheer drops along the entire route
and enough hairpins turns to make us dizzy. Haast Highway reaches beyond the
wind-whipped lakes of Wanaka and Hawea, through golden tussock-covered
hills, to steep mountains cloaked in lush rainforest and at the same time it is
crossed over again and again by tumbling rivers and waterfalls.
When we arrived for our scheduled departure they were ready for us. They put
us through some safety directions and precautions before we boarded. It was
awesome because it was only the four of us and the pilot. (When we took our
other helicopter ride in the Grand Canyon back in 2013 it was a larger helicopter
which we shared with another family). So, this was a treat to have a private flight.
As we took off we watched the land below us get smaller and smaller by the
second. First, we headed up to the striking “Fox Glacier” which offered us
dazzling views of the river of ice as it travels down to the valley into the temperate
rainforest below. Fox glacier moves at ten times the speed of other glaciers
around the world, so it is constantly shifting as it advances, creating spectacular
scenes of ice cliffs and crevasses.

Then, we followed the ridgeline which is roughly 9 miles north of Fox Glacier. We
doubled back over the “Waikukupa River” which flows northwest and eventually
meets the Tasman Sea. Next, we went through “Westland Tai Poutini National Park” which is about 510
square miles and extends from the highest peaks of the Southern Alps to the wild
and remote coastline. It boarders Mount Cook along the Main Divide. This area
can only be reached by backpack; (it is not stable enough to allow for the
weight of helicopters). But, it gives hikers the reward of natural hot pools
surrounded by snowy mountains, lakes so reflective that they look like mirrors, and
dense native rainforest that makes you believe you have stepped back into a
“Land Before Time”.

Further on, we soared over “Franz Josef Glacier” and took 2 separate passes to
get a good look from each perspective. It is one of NZ’s most photographed
natural wonders. It served up a dazzling landscape of snow-smothered peaks,
rocky gorges, and icy waterfalls, before it feeds into the Waiho River.
Following that, we headed up to the “Tasman Glacier” which is the largest
glacier in NZ. It is roughly 15 miles in length (despite shrinking considerably from
the 1990’s onwards). It is 3 miles wide wide and 2,000 ft. thick. Settled within the
glacier is “Terminal Lake” (which is a 500-year-old ice shelf). There is growing
concern that the “Tasman Glacier will continue to melt at exceedingly fast rates.
As it does, great avalanches will deposit the ancient ice fields into the water of
“Terminal Lake”. The lake is one of only a few in the world that contain icebergs.
The depth of the lake will continue to get larger and larger until eventually all of
the ice is then melted. After that, “Terminal Lake” will evaporate and and
remnants of the Tasman Glacier will no longer exist. In 1973, there was no Terminal
Lake at all, and by 2008 it had grown to 5 miles in length. It blows my mind that
people say that global warming doesn’t exist. It’s just a selfish excuse. We’re so
fortunate to be able to see it while we still have a chance.
Then, we traveled along the divide at the edge of the summit of Mount Cook.
We landed on the glacier in a region right next to Mount Cook called the
“Westland Tai Poutini”. There our pilot let us get out of the helicopter and stand
on the glacier itself to take pictures. It was a perfectly sunny day, with very little
wind. The temperature at that elevation was around 45 degrees. We stood
there taking in the majesty of the moment. It was stupendous! Mount Cook, the
“Cloud Piercer”, dominates the Southern Alps mountain range and divides NZ
South Island into east and west. Its towering peaks, vast glaciers and remote
snowfields are what inspired Sir Edmund Hillary, before his quest of Mt. Everest. Mount Cook is the highest mountain in NZ. Its height has been diminishing
since 1991 due to the Earthquakes, rockslides and erosion. The glacier at the top
of Mount Cook is swaddled in an indescribable blue hue. I’ve seen this before in
other mountains such as our US Rockies, the Matterhorn in Switzerland, the Dom
(between Switzerland and Italy), and Monte Rosa in France. But Mt. Cook was
even grander! Blue ice occurs when snow falls on a glacier, then it is compressed,
and becomes part of the glacier. Air bubbles are squeezed out and ice crystals
enlarge, making the ice appear blue. It’s a color I never get tired of looking at.
Time just seemed to stand still. I really can’t explain the immense feeling of
freedom that washed over us. The only thing that mattered was being present
in the moment. After we had taken pictures and soaked up a deeper sense of
connection to natures power and God’s presence it was time to depart. We
boarded the helicopter, and headed back to the city of Fox Glacier and reality.
Even though it was terribly expensive, we all agreed that it was worth every
penny! You only live once… This experience would never be forgotten…
We left Fox Glacier and returned to Haast Highway (or state road 6). We would
retrace our route home, back to Hawea. We had noticed many pull offs on the
road for different hikes and such on our way there. So, we were eager to check
them out upon our return. The first stop was Thunder Creek Falls.

Thunder Creek Falls is one of the more well-known waterfalls in the Haast River
Valley. An easy 10-minute walk led us to a rushing waterfall that was 315 ft. tall.
The mighty roar of the falls met the colorful Haast River waiting to greet it upon
its descent. At Haast Pass, (which was fairly close to this waterfall) is the
southernmost road that lies along the Southern Alps (essentially the spine of the
South Island). This “spine” also separates the very rainy West Coast from the much
drier leeward plains of Otago and Canterbury. Thunder Creek Falls is on the side
of the pass draining towards the Tasman Sea. We savored the melodic rhythm
that the great waterfall provided for us. Then, we took some pics and headed
on to our next surprise.

We ventured onward back on Haast Highway (or state road 6) just a few miles
down to “Fantail Falls” (named after one of NZ’s cutest birds). It’s a waterfall that
separates into wings as it descends 75 feet down the side of the mountain. We
reached the falls with less than 15-minute walk. From there we headed to the
edge of the river. The falls are on the opposite side of the river so we had to
wade through the river to reach the falls. We couldn’t help but notice the
abundance of stacked rocks (known as cairns). Cluttering the way. It’s a spiritual
thing… Cairns have a long history and purpose. From middle Gaelic, the word
means "mound of stones built as a memorial or landmark to reflect on what they
can teach us about life and balance. Their impermanence reminds us not only
to be balanced for ourselves but also reminds passerby’s too find their zen in the
present.

Finally, we headed back on Haast Highway (or state road 6) towards our next
exit…The “Blue Pools”. We hiked in about 10 minutes from the car through a
mature Beech, Tawhero, and Podocarp forest. It led us to the natural wonder of
pure glacial water gathered from the mountains. The pools get their name from
the unique blue color of the water which is the result of light refraction on the
clear and icy cold water. When the river is flooded upstream, a large amount of
gravel is brought down the river from a couple of slips in the headwaters. The
pools are then filled with gravel and it takes another flood of the Blue River to
wash the gravel downstream and allow the pools to return to their normal depth
and continuous blue color. We traversed the first swing bridge over Makarora
River. Then, we continued on for about 10 more minutes on a boardwalk to the
second swing bridge. This bridge is the viewing platform over the “Blue Pools”.
For safety purposes only 10 people at a time were allowed on the swing bridge
in essence because overloaded swing bridges mean broken swig bridges. When
we arrived there were many backpackers (in their early 20’s) scaling over the
side of the bridge to lunge themselves 55 ft. down into the icy waters of the “Blue
Pools”. Elijah was eager to jump, but we were able to persuade him not to
because we were foreigners and 3 hours from a hospital. He graciously
abstained. Plus, the Sand Flies were attacking us and we were ready to get
away from them. As we headed back over the second swing bridge we saw
many large trout feeding in the Makarora River. We could also hear the songs
of the Yellowhead/Mohua” from above us in the canopy. Yellowhead/Mohua
are a rare sparrow-sized songbird. They were once one of the most common
birds of South Island, but have been gradually declining since the arrival of stoats
in NZ. Their cheerful sounds were imprinted in my ears for the rest of the ride back
to home to Hawea.

All I can say is “WOW”!!! What an absolutely amazing day!