February 9th Saturday
South Island –Hawea
This would be our last day in Hawea. We had so enjoyed our time there.
However, now that we are nomads… we must carry on. Each time we
finally figure out where to go and have done all of the amazing things that
each place has offered- we let go and look forward to the next destination.
We woke early, and Jeff went to go interview another administrator. The
rest of us worked on our own “Back Home Responsibilities.
Later that afternoon, I headed back to the shores of Lake Hawea. I
followed the Riverside Trek to the end and back. It’s always very windy on
Lake Hawea so I knew if I was on the sand I’d be eating it. So, I decided to
stay on the path until I eventually reached a pine forest which looked like it
had recently been visited by the wind. Huge beautiful pines were ripped
up from their roots and the giant’s now lay splintered upon their own needle
beds. It must have been a terrible storm to have made that much
destruction.
That evening, after we ate leftovers, the four of us headed back down to
the beach to watch sunset. It was still pretty windy so we only managed to
stay about 30 minutes or so. Elijah received an itch to test out the water. It
was about 48 degrees. The wind was whipping about 16 miles an hour. But,

he was determined to give it a go! We couldn’t believe it! It reminded us
of when the four of us were in Stonehaven, Scotland. Ari and I decided that
we were going to go swimming in the North Sea. It was November, and
there were chunks of ice floating in the water. If you ever have a chance, I
would highly recommend it! Elijah certainly enjoyed it! I could tell by the
grin from ear-to-ear when he came back and tried to warm up in the sun.
Sometimes, you just have to put caution to the wind and jump! It’s a freeing
thing!

Images

