**Portage – South Island**

We woke up, had breakfast, and discussed all of the possible things that we
might do for the next two days. Jeff and Cheryl took the lead. We all
agreed that it would be fun to take a boat tour today. Boats take on many
purposes. They act as water taxis to transport people, postal deliveries, and
tours through the different nearby Sounds such as; Kenepuru, Queen
Charlotte, Mahau, and Pelorus. We drove by car a few miles to Terea Bay
where we picked up a water taxi to take us to Picton. Picton is known as
the gateway between the islands, inlets, bays, and sounds that tangle their
way along the shoreline of the northern coast of the southern island. It is
also the major hub that connects the north and the south islands with large
cargo and passenger ferries.

Once we arrived in Picton we had some time to kill so we walked around
through the parks and the downtown area. Next, we boarded our tour boat and headed to Motuara Island. It is a
scenic and Historic Reserve. No one lives there and there are no structures
other than a lookout tour. It is completely preserved in order to assist the
native Kiwi birds, along with other special birds such as the Grey Warbler,
Toutouwai Robin, and the Tieke Saddleback. Extreme vigilance is enforced
in order for their revival going. As we docked, we had to brush our feet off
before we began the climb to the lookout. Along the way, we heard many
bird calls. We spotted a Toutouwai Robin. It was so picturesque! The trail
wound up and back and forth along the front side of the island. Once we
made it to the summit there was a cairn resting below the viewing tower.
The cairn was placed there in 1770 to mark the place where Captain Cook
took possession of the island in the presence of the Maori Chief. A flag was raised as a reminder that this once sacred land now belonged to King
George the III. I had to swallow hard by the sight of this. Although I can
appreciate the courage and tenacity of the explorers, I am also saddened
by the way in which native people around the globe had their heritage
ripped out of their hands. The greed of some to conquer and divide other
humans makes my stomach turn. We needed to get back to the boat to
join the other passengers, and head to the next destination.

After a short ride we arrived at Ship Cove. Ship Cove is a location where
Captain James Cook spent over 100 days studying and observing NZ. This
place provided him and his crew safe anchorage, food and fresh water,
and timber to repair his ship. In total, Cook spent over 328 days exploring
all of the New Zealand coastline on three different voyages. During this
time, he mapped the outline of the country with considerable accuracy.
His observations of Maori culture, and natural history, combined with the
observations recorded by his men provide a rich source of information and
his comments on the abundance of whales, seals, timber, and flax
encouraged British interest. Attempts were made to civilize the Europeans
and introducing evasive flora and fauna. Some animals such as; a boar
and a sow, and a pair of goats, rats, chickens, and an ewe and a ram. This
had a serious impact upon the natural balance of NZ’s environment. They
also left potatoes, and turnips as well as many other vegetables, plants, and
flowers. But, most tragically Cook and his crew also brought serious diseases
to Maori, including tuberculosis, and venereal diseases.

There is now a monument that marks Cooks claim of the land. This
monument has two of his cannons and at the top rests his anchor.
Fittingly so, there is also a tribal Maori Totem that makers the same area.
For it too was used by Māori as a gateway between the North and South
Islands, it was the meeting place between Whakatu, Nelson, Rangitoto,
and Pounamu further south. As we were heading out we stumbled upon
another Weka. After fully exploring the site, we boarded the boat and
headed back home.

Once we returned, Cheryl made her most awesome Mac and Cheese!
We were all treated to the taste of home. Yummm!!! After dinner we
enjoyed a beautiful sunset!