Monday - March 11
Portage – South Island
Once we all got up and around, we decided that we would take a hike
together. The best hiking location close to us was the “Queen Charlotte Track”.
It’s a famous track that stretches 70 km from historic Ship Cove through to
Anakiwa. We were obviously not going to do the entire 70 km, but we thought
we’d take a portion of it from Torea Saddle to Mistletoe Bay. This section was a
more realistic 7 km trek. We figured we would walk until we were ready to turn
back regardless.
Our journey began with a steep climb (I mean steep and long climb – like about
45-minutes) to a mid-point of the trek. The path was filled with large broken
stones, exposed roots, and was muddy and difficult to manage. We were full of
sweat and breathing pretty heavy. Once we got to a place where the path
became weedy it became tamer. Here, the“Gorse” (an invasive yellow hedge
plant) “Mānuka” (a shrub type tree that blooms either in white or pink) and the
“Kawaka” (a cedar) were tightly crowding in the path. Together they provided
great shelter and shade for the birds and other critters. For us, the trek was
somewhat shaded but it was difficult to see over the brush to get in too many
great views. Although the ones that were able to sneak were stunning! We
could see all the way down across the bay and right up to our house. Once we
reached the plateauing ridge as we began to enter patches of native forest, we
decided to turn around and head back. We had most definitely gotten a good
workout! My 71 and 81 year-old parents had “kicked it”!!!
Once we returned to the house, we took a swim in the pool and just hung out.
Later, that night we went in the hot-tub and enjoyed the views of the harbor with
glasses of wine. For dinner, Cheryl made here famous “Tuna Melts”. We had,
had such a wonderful two days together! We watched the sunset, and headed
to bed. We would need to be up at 5:00 am to catch the ferry in Picton to take
us back to the North Island.

Images

