Tuesday March 12
North Island -Waipipi Beach
We woke super early! We had to be packed, “sardine in” the low-rider, and be on the
road by 6:00 am. The journey back down through the mountains was terrifying. It was
a little foggy and it was pitched dark. Remember… this is the road that was scary
anyway. I held my breath as we made each switchback. There were no rails and the
cliffs beneath us were immense black holes. Now you may be thinking that I’m being
overly dramatic – but I telling you… It was a trip! By the time we got to Picton, Jeff’s
knuckles were white, and my jaw was sore from clenching my teeth so hard, trying not
to say anything. We had safely made it there with the help of my guardian Uriel looking
over us.
Once we boarded the Ferry and got settled, we had a huge wave of sorrow come
over us… OUR JOURNEY WAS NOW HALF OVER! As the ferry made it’s way out into the
Tasmen Sea towards Wellington and the North Island, a tear fell from my cheek. as I
took my last glimpse of the South Island I thought, who knows if we’ll ever return? The
past 10-weeks had slipped right past us! Oh… what amazing adventures we’ve had,
but I wished I could just stop time so that this wonderful dream would never end.

This was our final goodbye glimpse…

Once land could no longer be seen… I became filled with gratitude for this opportunity
to live life fully and unencumbered. I became eager for the exciting adventures that
still awaited us. No, I couldn’t make time stop, but I could embrace every moment that
we had left.
This ferry was much smaller than the one that brought us here. I had prepared myself
with sea-sickness pills just in case. Turns out, the 4-hour ride across was smooth with no
wind. Hurrah!

Once we disembarked in Wellington, we headed about 200 kilometers northwest
to Whanganui. We would be staying 2 nights (March 12 & 13) at Waipipi Beach
(a small development close to Whanganui). Our home was a small 3 bedroom/1
bath cottage. Basically, in the middle of no where. There is the small village
called Waverly about a 15-minute drive away. We stopped there to get some
basic groceries from the “four square” (think 7-11).
Waipipi beach is a private development on the beach overlooking the Tasmen
Sea. Here is the link to the house; https://www.bookabach.co.nz/baches-andholiday-homes/view/41082 The house had polished concrete floors, a large
deck, a fire pit, and a hot-tub. There were only about 6 other houses around us
so the rest of the lots were just grass. The cliff tops have picnic benches
overlooking the wide, empty, “black sand” beach. Yes! That’s right… Black!
Once we had unpacked, and organized ourselves we went to explore the
beach. Because we are perched on a cliff, we could not see the sea from the
house. But, as we ascended we found ourselves on a vast – deserted beach.
The sand is black because it has “titanomagnetite” (an iron-bearing mineral that
contains titanium and magnesium) that was formed over 25 million years ago
when it was deposited there Volcanically from the Taranaki Region. Another
interesting thing was that the rocks themselves are called “Ventifacts” which are
hard rocks that get polished by the wind blowing grains of sand over them, which
leaves holes that look like something has been bored into them.

Soon it was getting dark, we needed to wrap up the day with dinner, a shower,
and a movie. We’d have more time tomorrow for other explorations. We
headed in, everybody ate their own thing, and we closed the night with “Marvel
Mania” to continue on with “Avengers- the Age of Ultron”.

