**North Island -Waipipi Beach**

Well, we woke the next morning to find that it was raining. In fact, it was
supposed to rain the entire day. So, we decided we would just hang out and
take care of “At Home Responsibilities”. The rain was off and on all morning. By
the late afternoon, it had started to dissipate, so Ari and I took a walk. We walked
around the farmland that surrounded the beach. It seems odd to have livestock
enjoy such beautiful scenery. It’s not something we often see… cows overlooking
the beach.

After our walk, Ari and I made a great stir fry with rice. Once we had finished, all
four of us headed back to the beach to explore. The development that the
house was located in had at one time a dam that connected the farmland with
aqueducts. The developers decided to monopolize on it by backing up the dam
to make a small lake on the property, thereby leaving a small waterfall that
extends on to the beach and back to sea.

The other interesting thing about this beach is that there were hundreds of pieces
of driftwood (all different sizes some as small at a pencil-others as large as a tree)
scattered all over the black sand. Added by intriguing sight, the cliffs were made
of clay. Because it had rained so heavily, the wet clay just broke off into huge
boulders at the bottom on the cliffs. This unique beauty was eclectically strange.
Jeff and I walked down the beach to the north until we could not get passed
the cliffs. By the time we had returned, Elijah and Ari were trying to see if they
could create their own dam from the waterfall. They had taken huge pieces of
the wood and large rocks and sealed it in with clay. After about an hour, they
decided that without the tools and materials needed, it would be futile.

Once we returned to the house, we all took a hot-tub. Ate Popcorn and
continued “Marvel Mania” by watching, “Antman”