**North Island – New Plymouth/Ackworth**

We left, Waipipi and continued our journey north to New Plymouth.
New Plymouth is a city on the west coast of New Zealand’s North Island. It’s known
for its coastal walkway and views of towering Mount Taranaki. Ackworth is a tiny
hamlet outside of New Plymouth. We would be here for 2 nights and then continue
on our way north to meet up with George and Cheryl in Whitianga.

We were intrigued by the VRBO listing just because the house seemed interesting.
https://www.vrbo.com/20044961ha?unitId=5832175 . So we thought we’d try out
something fun and funky! The hosts, Allan and Trish converted a warehouse into a
quirky accommodation. Large industrial shipping containers were positioned
abound the hub of the warehouse to create an indoor/outdoor experience. There
are 3 bedrooms and 1 bath. The gardens are beautiful and the surrounding
farmland with winding hills and valleys had a comfortable country feel.

We have noticed that many people use old shipping containers for home space
all over the country. They turn them into storage sheds, food carts, even additions
to their homes. Kiwi’s are notorious for reducing, recycling, and even more so
reusing. They are a very innovative country in that they leave nothing to waste.
Once we arrived, we unpacked and were immediately impressed because the
pictures on VRBO didn’t reveal all of the extra touches that they had obviously put
into making their house a great place to be. It’s a little embarrassing when we get
to a new house and we have so much to unload. We kind of look like the “Beverly
Hillbillies” have arrived. I added a pic of how crammed in we are.
At any rate, it was a pretty hot day with very little wind. Everything seemed to be
going awesome until… Allan had to break the bad news that he and Trish were
having an issue with flies. Then suddenly, as soon as we had just got settled they
swarmed in all at once and took over. They seemed to be everywhere! So, we
promptly closed up all of the windows. REMEMBER… THEY DO NOT HAVE ANY SCREENS IN NZ, UGGGG! So we’d have to sweat it out.
that could be done. There was really nothing.

Jeff and I decided we would go out for a walk through the countryside. Thinking
that the flies would be more interested in the horses and sheep than us. We were
right! While we were on our walk we met the most beautiful cow I’ve ever seen!
She let me get close enough to me to take her picture. Her eyelashes were
amazing!

Fortunately, as the sun began to set, the flies seemed to become less interested.
We kept all of the lights off, but were able to open the windows a bit and let in the
cool night air.

Jeff BBQ chicken, and we cut it up to put into a big salad. Of course, we kept up
with “Marvel Mania” by watching “Captain America-Civil War”. And… if you
haven’t figured it out by now, we had popcorn for dessert!