**North Island – New Plymouth/Ackworth**

On our second day in Ackworth, the weather was once again very hot. The
kids went in to New Plymouth to go do their work at a coffee shop. After they
were done with what they needed to accomplish, they had dinner and went
to a movie together. In the mean time, Jeff and I worked on “Back Home
Responsibilities”. As we were working, we received word that the entire city
of Christchurch was in lockdown! The hideous news about the shootings blew
up every TV, radio, and internet. We quickly contacted Dino, Summer, and
the boys within 30 minutes we heard back that they were okay. One of the
Mosques where the shootings was literally only a few blocks from the house
we had just lived in.

As the early evening began to rush in, the temperature lowered significantly.
We were still shocked that something this horrible had happened here. It just
didn’t seem possible. We decided we needed to take a break from work and
worry so we went out for a run/walk along the countryside. Jeff’s stride is
much greater than mine so, in time we lost sight of each other. Some “alone”
time is always welcomed when the four of us are usually together 24-7 for 5
months.

The warm light of the setting sun danced over the hills and valleys. Each ray
touched the trees and flowers at a different angle. It was magical! I noticed
my shadow while I was walking along a high hedge. It felt like my secret –
silent companion. As we climbed to the top of a hill together we noticed all at once… The peak of Taranaki piercing through the cloud line that
encompassed it.

Mount Taranaki is an active stratovolcano that is over 8,200 feet at its peak.
It is one of the most symmetrical volcanoes in the world similar to Mt. Fuji in
Japan. Taranaki was the backdrop for the movie “The Last Samurai”.
As beautiful as everything was… My thoughts quickly returned to sadness as I
reflected on the events of this day… How can there be so much beauty, in a
world infected with such hate? I was swept up with great sorrow for the
people of Christchurch. This city, (still recovering from the horrendous
earthquake) now had to once again mend their broken hearts. Today’s
shooting killed over 50 people, and countless others were seriously injured.
How is it, that there are people out there, who commit violent crimes against
others because of their faith, but then call themselves faithful by doing so?
We’ve been put here to raise each other up, not to break each other down.
It pains me to stand witness to this devastation and yet, there is nothing that I
can do to help…It fills me with tremendous grief. Today, darkness has swept
across this sacred little country at the bottom of the Earth. Now, they too, are
no longer insulated from the world of human malice.

As I write this post…record numbers of NZ gun owners are literally racing to
their local police stations to voluntarily surrender their semi-automatic
weapons. The government has quickly announced that they will ban all semiautomatic weapons- end of story. Scathes of people are taking to social
media to spread the word that semi-automatic rifles do not belong in New
Zealand for anyone other than military. They’re calling their movement
“#NeverAgain."

Tonight, I will pray for the families who have lost their love ones. I’ll also pray
that someday the US will follow NZ’s lead. Of course, I believe in the right to
bare arms. I do believe that we have the right to protect ourselves in our own
homes. But, we must have much tighter regulations and transparency than
what we currently have. I personally do not believe in the need for handguns
either. When will the US wake up and realize that a huge part of the violence
that occurs could be eliminated if we monitored more carefully our gun laws.
How many more tragedies will it take before we can all agree on a safer
solution?

More than anything, tonight I will pray that someday we can find a way to
live together with collective connectedness rather than isolating ourselves in
fear. I truly believe that in spite of all of this ugliness, the world can, and will,
find a way through this. But compromise must be sought. Peace can exist...