**North Island - Whitianga**

Today we will continue our journey northward to reconnect with my parents George and
Cheryl. We’ll be staying on a peninsula called “The Coromandel”. This peninsula, curls off
the east coast of the North Island from the Hauraki Gulf Just across the water from Auckland
(this is where we saw the Orcas). Here, rocky coves, sandy bays and ancient Kauri forests are
among some of the terrific landscapes.

The city we’ll be staying in is called “Whitianga”. It’s a small town with a deep-water harbor
in the middle of Mercury Bay. It encompasses a spectacular coast line flanked by many
islands. The Whitianga Marina is a world class NZ 'Clean Marina' and a popular stop-off point
for international yacht owners who cruise the South Pacific. Whitianga has been continuously
occupied for more than a thousand years since Maori explorer “Kupe's” tribe settled here in
950 A.D. Now, it’s a thriving coastal town with 4,000 permanent residents.

Along the way, we stopped in at a Snap near Hamilton to get a good workout. Although
we’ve been keeping up with cardio, we haven’t lifted in a while. There aren’t any gyms in
the bush (wilderness). So we’ll have to pay the price for missing workouts. Unfortunately,
the isn’t a Snap in Whitianga so we’ll have to go to an older gym.

The house we’re all staying in is located right in the hub of Whitianga on “Buffalo Beach”.
Here is the link: https://www.bookabach.co.nz/baches-and-holiday-homes/view/45614
It’s a nice beach for walking, swimming, and watching the boats sailing into and out of
Mercury Bay. Interestingly, Buffalo Beach takes it name from the HMS Buffalo, a vessel that was
shipwrecked here during a storm in 1840. The beach runs the length of the town of Whitianga.
It’s also a great shelling beach. There are thousands of perfect condition seashells as well as
mussels and clams that you can pick in the morning and have for the evenings dinner.

We arrived around 5:00 pm. As soon as we got unloaded and unpacked, George and Cheryl
took Elijah and Ari out to dinner at a local pub. Jeff and I went grocery shopping, took a walk
on the beach, and ate nachos as we sat overlooking the bay. Everyone headed to bed pretty
early so that we’d be fresh for Cathedral Cove the next day.