**North Island - Whitianga**

We packed up all of our stuff, piled in the low-rider and headed out to the world famous
“Cathedral Cove”. it’s name in Maori is “Te Whanganui a Hei”. This sacred area was first
claimed by “Hei” from the “Waka Te Arawa” tribe some time around 1350 AD. On his
northbound voyage from the Bay of Plenty to Hauraki, Hei chose the area around Mercury
Bay to settle with his people. He proclaimed ownership by referring to Motueka Island as “Te
kuraetangao-taku-Ihu” (the outward curve of my nose). It is said that he made this claim near
the present day site of Hahei. Hei’s descendants still retain a strong ancestral and spiritual
attachment to the area and continue their role of kaitiaki (guardians) of the bountiful
resources within it.

Cathedral Cove is located in “Hahei” a little seaside village with a beautiful beach of its own.
There is no parking near the entrance of the track, so we parked closer to town and walked
about 15 minutes uphill to get to the reserve. You can only reach Cathedral Cove by foot or
by boat. It’s a 30 to 45-minute walk once you enter the reserve to get to the beach. It’s a
worthwhile journey though (even without the stellar destination). A grassy park-like entrance
eventually opened up onto a wide tar-sealed footpath with vast ocean views. There were
plenty of spots to sit and rest along the path. The walk traverses rugged highland, then delves
deep into regenerative native thickets. There are mini tracks that detour towards rocky
shorelines like “Gems Beach” and “Stingray Bay”. As we continued through the jungle-like
paths, and mossy glades, birds sang joyfully! Skinny pines, fantail palms, and delicate floral
undergrowth run adjacent to the breaks which open up to stunning cliff-top views. From this
point, you look down on the scene rather than being below and looking up at it. The cliffs at
a distance look like they're made of moleskin. The islands seem merely an arm's length away.
Following a final descent down a steep wooden staircase, stepping out onto Cathedral Cove
beach it’s absolutely surreal! a bit like stepping onto a movie set. It is all there!!! The golden
sand. The lapping waves. The creamy cliffs book-ending both sides of the beach. To the left
is the Cove, perfectly framing the rock rising up out of the sea. We headed through the arch
to the other side. We wanted to find a place where we could set-up “camp” somewhere
near the shade so if the sun got to be too intense we’d have an option to get some relief. We
were all pretty hot from the hike.

The weather was perfect! So we decided to go swimming first. The waves were a blast to
play in. The water was the perfect temperature, and it was crystal clear. We felt like we were
in paradise!!!

After we had all cooled off, we decided we were pretty hungry for lunch. Cheryl had packed
a picnic of sandwiches, chips, and diet coke. After our tummies were nicely filled, we all laid
out in the sun and relaxed…. Ahhh!!!!

Eventually, we decided to explore a bit further to the end of this side of the beach. The route
beyond is impassable because of the twisted driftwood and sharp boulders. After snapping
a few photos, we realized that the tide was coming back up, if we didn’t get back to basecamp and move our stuff, it would be washed away.
We quickly returned, collected our things, and headed back through the arch to the other
side of the beach. Here, we played in the surf even more! The waves were increasing in
intensity. Yee-haw! Elijah and I let them throw us around a while until I had swallowed my fill
of saltwater. Following that, we all sat on the beach and shared a nice bottle of Pinot Gris
and apple slices. We realized our shoulders had been sufficiently sun-kissed, and any more
exposure would have been to much, so we packed it up, and started our journey back.
Once we got back to the house, we all took showers and got ready to go into town to
celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. Since we’re all Irish, we felt the calling to find some beer and hear
a good ol’ Irish Tune. We headed to “Grace O’Malley’s” where we had a Guinness and
soaked in about a half hour of nonsense. By then, we’d scratched that itch, and were ready
to have a proper meal.

We always have good food when we’re with my parents (Cheryl has excellent gastronomical
taste). So, we headed to a hip and hopping place called “Stoked”. It is rated as one of the
best meals around… and they lived up to their reputation! It was incredible! I had to local
fare “Green lipped Mussels”. They were delicious! …and then, there was dessert!!! Even more
delectable!!!

By the time we got home, we could barely move because we were so full! In fact, we all
enjoyed dinner so much that Cheryl made reservations for the following night too!
It was a remarkable day, one that none of us will ever forget!