Monday – March 18th
North Island – Whitianga
We started our adventures of the day by going to the “Driving Creek Railway”.
Along the way, we came upon a mother pig and her piglets in the winding dirt
road. They were so cute, I just had to get out of the car to get a closer look!
Once we arrived, we took a tour of this “hand-built” railroad created by famous
potter and painter, Barry Brickell. Barry originally built the railway to bring natural
clay from the land below up to his potter’s wheels, and to haul wood to fire his
kilns. Today, it’s a popular NZ destination where guests can enjoy an hour-long
train ride through the jungle.
We clambered aboard, and did zigzags all the way up the hillside. The railcars
followed a narrow-gauge track through three tunnels, over five viaducts and
bridges, around two spirals, along five switchbacks, and past a churning water
wheel as we climbed up the hill to the “Eyefull Tower” overlook. At the top of
the property, we disembarked and enjoyed panoramic views of the island
which overlook the Hauraki Gulf.
Once back in route, the train conductor explained the history, the engineering
feats, and pointed out sculptures, and artworks, as well as Barry's grave (where
he was laid to rest in 2016).
There are a variety of other features on the site, such as a re-planted native
forest of many different trees indigenous to NZ, a wildlife sanctuary, and a soon
to be zip-line. My favorite feature were the retaining walls that were supported
by glass bottles.
Next, we headed to the “Waiau Kauri Grove”. The Kauri are among the world's
mightiest trees! They grow to over 175 feet tall, and live for over 2,000 years. At

one time, most of the Coromandel Peninsula was covered in giant kauri trees,
but when the Europeans came instead of seeing beautiful nature in these huge,
straight trees, they saw timber and dollar signs and logged them almost into
extinction. Now there are just isolated stands of Kauri trees, mainly on the
Coromandel Peninsula and Northland. But, the fight for survival has also been
complicated by Kauri dieback disease. It’s a serious threat. We made sure that
upon both arriving and leaving we cleaned our shoes carefully with the
disinfectant provided to prevent further contamination. The last thing these
precious trees need is to be infected by some careless tourists.
We dawdled along the trail, just soaking in the immense awe of these giants.
The smell of the grove was a sweet woody fragrance, much different than what
we know as a “woodsy” smell. Once we reached the platform, Jeff & I, and Ari
& Elijah were barely able to touch fingers as we wrapped ourselves around the
base on one. It’s staggering to imagine the timeline of what these immense
elders have shared. We also came upon a Siamese kauri tree, which in fact
have nothing to do with Thailand but are actually joined at the base and look
like an upside down pair of legs. They were two separate seeds who grew
together as one. As we left, I couldn’t wonder what this sacred little patch of
virgin rainforest would look like in another 1,000 years or so…
Finally, we headed along 309 Road (which is a terribly pitted gravel/muddy
road) to “Waiau Falls”. A short hike into the jungle brought us to a beautiful
waterfall that crashs over a rock face into a pristine pool below. The falls are
surrounded by numerous bush glades such as ferns and ivy. The canopy trees
that we saw were primarily include rimu and rātā, with some tōtara. There were
also many cabbage palms. Jeff found an interesting berry-like flower that was
bright blue/purple. It would have been a great place for a swim, but it was cold
and rainy so our desire to “take the plunge” was not as strong as usual. The rush
of the water and the sound of the cicadas was hypnotic. I could have stayed
there longer, but we were all eager to head back to the house to get ready for
dinner.
Our second night at “Stoked” was just as wonderful as the first! The food was
excellent, and so was dessert. We toasted a thanks for this wonderful
opportunity to be together in this amazing place. We would hold dear these
memories forever…

Images

