Saturday 3-2-19
South Island - Wanaka
Today will be our last day and night in Wanaka. We have certainly enjoyed this region of NZ.
It will be hard to say goodbye. We loved our adventures through Mount Aspiring National Park
so much that we wanted to spend our last day going back to explore more. We knew we
wanted to see Fantail Falls and the Blue Pools again. The drive along Haast Highway which
runs parallel to the Haast River is filled with scenic views that anyone would enjoy over and
over.
When we arrived at Fantail Falls we decided to enter from the opposite side. We followed the
river to a place where the stones became rocks and the rocks became boulders. They began
to crowd out the river the further we continued. We had to navigate around them in order to
follow the route we had set. We continued on knowing that eventually we would meet up
with Fantail Falls. The walk along the river soon became an obstacle course. The nooks and
crevices made things a bit treacherous. Soon, we entered a cave that the river was rushing
through. The depth was very unpredictable and many rocks were beginning to get dislodged
from the wedge they were caught in. They became slippery from the moss that was growing
on them, and many had sharp edges.
I started this adventure with gym shoes instead of sandals because we planned on taking a
hike after this. I didn’t want to get them wet because later this would cause blisters. So at this
point, I had my shoes tied together and had them hanging around my neck. I’d have to keep
up barefoot. After a few slips and a bruised knee, I knew that I’d only be holding everyone
up. I decided to stay where I was, and send everyone off to see how much farther away we
were from Fantail.
Here I was, perched on a big boulder, at the mouth of a cave. The rush of water was very
loud and drowned out any other sounds. The boulder I was on was set at the last bit of direct
sunlight within the cave. I figured I’d mine as well chill out and hang tight. So, I laid there in
the sun waiting for Jeff and the kids to return. It was an interesting predicament I found myself
in. No other people had passed by, and if I hadn’t have paid attention I’d have never known

that someone was in there with me. As I laid on the rock, my imagination started to kick in.
For some reason I couldn’t stop thinking about “Gollum” from The Lord of the Rings. I was
thinking… “My Precious”…
Just then, Elijah came back and said I just had to continue on because what laid ahead was
way too awesome to miss. We took it slow, and with his help we made it to the center of the
cave. He was right… It was too awesome to miss! There was a hole in the top of the cave
and running through it was a beautiful waterfall. It was spectacular! The maps didn’t mention
this place at all. I wondered why such an amazing spot was not marked for people to find?
Our route had taken us to a dead end. After a bit, we turned around and headed back
through the cave, boulders to rocks, rocks to pebbles, and so forth. (Later, after doing some
research, I learned that the mysterious waterfall was called “Toposy Falls”. Apparently, there
must have been some injuries there, so they wanted to deter people from going there.
After dropping off stuff at the car, we headed to Fantail the proper way. The weather was
beautiful! Maybe about 75 degrees. The river that divides Fantail Falls from the shore was
freezing! This was a deterrent for most people if they wanted to cross it to get up close. The
top of the falls is not accessible. But it branches out and creates two pools, one in the middle
and one at the bottom. Once we crossed the river, there were two ways to get to the higher
pool. One way is to climb up the edge of the rocks through dense underbrush. The other way,
is to jump directly into the lower pool, (which is over your head) and pull yourself out of the
water, onto the rocks of the upper pool. In hindsight, Jeff and the kids took the smarter route.
Once we were all at the upper pool we hung out on the surrounding rocks to try to warm up
in the sun. From where we were, we could barely be seen from the people down below across
the river. It must have been that our Michigan blood that’s used to cold water, because no
one else ventured any closer. YOLO! We wanted to have enough time to see the Blue Pools
again, so we said our goodbyes to Fantail and carried on.
We arrived to the Blue Pools around 6 pm. Because they’re located in a canyon, we were in
a race against time before the sun closes in. The water here is even colder! Elijah and Ari
really wanted to explore the pools with their dive masks on (we keep them in the car). But, in
order to do so they had to completely submerse themselves in the bitter cold water. Needless
to say, their curiosity was abruptly halted by their lowering body temperatures. Hypothermia
was not on our list of fun things to do. So after a short stint of trying to overlook the obvious,
they quickly came to shore to try to warm up. As we sat on the rocks next to the river, the
sandflies started to close in. These pesky little monsters are not only irritating, but they leave
bites that itch like the dickens! We decided that we were not only cold but hungry as well, so
we headed for home. As we left Mount Aspiring, we all left a little piece of our heart there
too.
As we returned home, we all took showers, ate Dominoes pizza, and continued our “Marvel
Mania” by watching “The Incredible Hulk”. As we were heading to bed, Jeff and I sat out on
the couch off the front porch and did some star-gazing. Everything is so much brighter here
because they don’t have light pollution. The Southern Cross hangs in the sky brighter than the
North Star back home. We stared off into the endless abyss knowing that once we fell asleep
our time in Wanaka would be over. We had been here 2 months now. We were so thankful
for every blessing we’ve encountered so far, and knew that the next 3 months would behold
even more incredible opportunities.

Images

