**North Island – Whitianga**

This morning Ari had fantastic news! Her audition for “Wind Ensemble” had been a huge
success… She not only got “in”, but she was selected to be the first chair! YAY!!! All of that
practicing paid off. She was so excited, and we are so proud. What an accomplishment!
Today, is also the day that Elijah has been waiting for… His girlfriend, Madison arrives for 10
days! She took an 18-hour flight from Dallas to Auckland. So, she’s set to land around 1:00
pm. Elijah was so excited to see her so he left early to go pick her up. They have been dating
for 4 years, so she’s one of the family now. His plan is to meet her and spend the first night in
a fancy hotel at the bottom of the “Sky Tower”. Which is an iconic landmark in Auckland's
skyline due to its height and unique design. It’s actually the tallest freestanding structure in the
Southern Hemisphere. After that, he VRBO’ed a small studio apt for three of the night’s that
she will be here.

While Elijah was off getting Madison, Jeff’s throat issues worsened. We were really concerned
so he headed back to the doctor. Basically, it was a “freakish virus” so there was nothing else
he could do but to ride it out. He thought some sun would be a great help so we headed
across the street to the beach.

Later that night Jeff and I watched the movie “The Secret Life of Walter Mitty”. If you’re
looking for a great “Feel Good” movie, this one is for you!!! Anyway, it seemed to help Jeff
take his mind off his throat.