Sunday – March 24th
North Island - Whitianga
This morning Jeff and I thought we would try out another church. We went to a
place called “C3”. We arrived not knowing what to expect. It was in a
warehouse with the same set up as the other church in Wanaka. The praise band
was actually much better than the “New Life” church. They were also more
organized than the other one as well.
The over-riding message was good, but it went right into the same philosophy of
damnation, hell, and fearing Satan. Many parts of the service were difficult to
swallow, but we were pleased by their friendliness.
Another part that struck us as odd was the fact that they were directing all of
their forgiveness to the shooter of the Christchurch tragedy. I understand the
notion of forgiveness. Our issue was that they never even mentioned all of the
Muslim victims who deserved the healing and support. It was as if they were
excluded because they’re not Christians. We left with a bad taste in our mouth
and feeling confused by their line of thinking. Their approach to compassion and
empathy did not make any sense to us. One would think that in this day and
age we still are fighting about religion. If we all embraced the diversity of all
faiths, it wouldn’t be necessary to segregate each other and ourselves.
After church, I met Ari, Elijah, Madison at the gym to work out. At many of the
smaller gyms here in NZ give members are given a fob to be used to unlock the
doors. Once you have a membership you can go 24-7 whenever it’s best for
you. There is no one on staff. If you go, and no one is there then you have the
whole place to yourself. The doors automatically lock and the fob, and cameras
are used to monitor who has been there and who has not. It seems like a strange

concept because of liability, but people trust each other more here. The whole
legal/lawsuit mentality is missing. To the Kiwi, those who break laws and harm
others or property are considered rude. It’s part of the fabric of this society.
Remember the post from Christchurch that talked about the “Sticky Fingers”
Wall? It’s about honor and integrity.
Later that evening, Jeff and I walked in to town to meet the kids. Ari, Elijah, and
Madison hosted dinner at the studio. They made a lovely salad, and had a very
nice spread of appetizers (two brie, hummus, crackers, peppers, and sausage).
After dinner, we walked to the movie theater to watch the new release of
“Captain Marvel”. Obviously, we’re all huge Marvel fans, but this one kind of
missed the boat. Jeff and I felt that the storyline could have been better
expanded, and the character development was lacking. Usually, they
interweave the storylines and characters from one movie to the next. It was
missing continuity. Maybe the next one will explain this one a bit better.

Images

