**North Island - Whitianga**

Before we headed out for the day, we needed to accomplish some “Back Home
Responsibilities”. Afterwards, Jeff and the kids went to the gym to work out. While
they were gone, I packed us all a picnic for lunch. Since Cathedral Cove is
definitely one of our favorite places around Whitianga, we wanted to share it
with Madison while she is here. It’s arguably one of the most picturesque spots
(and there are many) in The Coromandel Peninsula. Its a naturally formed
archway connecting two beaches. In my opinion, it deserves the title of
“Stunningly Unforgettable”. New Zealand is a popular backdrop for movies due
to the dramatic landscapes. I just learned that Cathedral Cove was featured in
the movie, “The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian”.
Since this was our second trip there, we decided it would be better to drop
everyone off at the top of the hill. Rather than hauling all the bags, coolers,
towels, and so forth up the hill unnecessarily. The trip up the the hill shaves off
about 15 minutes. Once we got to the entrance, we still had a 45-minute hike
through the jungle to get to the beach.
The other advantage that we had (this second time around) is the fact that we
already knew the hike. It’s an interesting phenomenon that occurs while hiking.

For some reason, when you do a one-way hike with the same return, it’s never as
long on the return (even if the distance is the same as that of a loop). The
advantage of a loop is that you see new things the entire time (which I love).
But, another advantage of a one-way is that the second time through, you
notice different things that you hadn’t noticed the first time. So, this time, the
hike didn’t seem as long. Before we knew it, we were there.
We arrived to the great staircase that extends from the top of the cliff to the
bottom of the beach. We quickened our stride with great anticipation. We were
so excited to head back down to paradise. Once the sand was between our
toes we looked up once again in awe of the gigantic arched cavern which
separates the beach into two coves. The cathedral-like arch gives the whole
scene an air of grandeur. As we passed through the shade of the cave, I began
to wonder… would we ever be here again? Well of course, I’d love to say that
we would for sure, but you never know… So I tried to memorize the moment, the
sounds, the images, the feelings I worked hard to be completely cognoscente
of everything. So that I would never forget. Also, it’s always good to have a place
like this tucked away in my mind so when things get tough you can instantly go
to a “Happy Place”.

Once settled, we urgently raced to the waters edge. The fine white sugar-sand
was a bit hot as we crossed it. The water was a striking turquoise color most of
the time, but depending on the wind, it also shows streaks of emerald green. The
late summer sun glittered like sequins as it stretched over the quick moving
surface. The wind was a steady breeze that cut through the heat. Not too much,
but enough to create waves in the under tow, that were wickedly wild. The
perfect recipe for body surfing!

From the moment we hit the water, time just stopped! In fact, the five of us were
transported back in time (Jeff and I 40 years, Elijah and Madison 10 years, and
Ari 5) all of us roughly to the age of 10. We were so caught-up in the moment
there was no room for anything else. These are the times in life that make
everything worth it. These are the times that happen fleetingly but through your
memories they seem eternal because they’re so deeply etched into your soul.
We were thrashed and beaten by the monstrous waves. We were laughing so
hard we just couldn’t stop. It’s an awesome experience to tap into your youth
and be so incredibly carefree… But, to be able to do it with your kids is utterly
magical! The fierce waves of the South Pacific are never forgiving. It really challenged our
“fear-factor” confidence. At some point, all of us had gotten sucked under and inside the eye of the surf. Some of us, more than others (Madison and I). It’s a bit
terrifying when you get stuck in the rip curl because you don’t know which way
is up, and the wave has so much power the only thing you can do is to go limp
and “ride” it out to shore. On the other hand, what an adrenaline rush!
Slowly one-by-one we retreated out of the water like drowned rats. Salt water
was forced up our nose and down our throat. Our eyes were burning from the
salt water, and we had sand inside our ears and clinging to our scalp.
As our land legs slowly returned, Jeff and I took a walk back under the arching
cave to the other cove. There seemed to be a bit of commotion on the far side
of the beach. We thought we’d investigate. As we approached, we realized
that there was AN HONEST TO GOODNESS WATERFALL!!! I was so thrilled. The
water was nice and cold and pristinely fresh. I can’t tell you how relieved I was
to stand below it and be able to rinse all the sand and salt off. We really were in
paradise!

We headed back to eat our sandwiches, add more sunscreen, and pack up to
move to the other side. I couldn’t wait for the kids to see the waterfall. The crazy
thing was, when we were here before, we didn’t even know it existed. Nature
here in NZ has so many surprises you almost have to take a second, or third, or
fourth look in order to see the next layer of beauty.

We made the switch to the other cove. This time we borrowed some shade from
some enormous Pohutukawa trees along the steep cliff face.
Just off the beach on this side of the cove rests a large pinnacle of pumice
breccia rock known as “Te Hoho”. Over centuries, it has been sculpted by wind
and water. Many people see it as a bow of a large ship steaming into the beach
or better yet, I saw it as Egyptian Sphinx laying in the water.
Madison was beginning to get too burned from the intense NZ rays, but Elijah was
right along with her. We decided we better begin heading back. We still would
have an hour to hike back to the car, and another hour to drive back to town.
On our way back, we stopped at an organic vegetable stand. We bought 2
packs of blueberries, some honey, peppers, and onions.
We needed to get something to eat for dinner so we went to “Count Down” the
other grocery store chain here in NZ. We were quite a sight! The girls and I had
matted hair, we all smelled like coconuts (from the sunscreen) and our eyes were
puffy and red. We wore it as a badge – from our tango with the sea!

Elijah and Madison were pretty puffed up after the body surfing, so they wanted
to be rebels and go in the store barefoot. In my earlier blog notes I explained
that people walk around barefoot all of the time in public. It’s totally okay. Here
in NZ the drinking age is 18. Since Elijah will be 20 in June, and Madison just turned
20 in February they were so excited to go in the store barefoot and buy a bottle
of wine! Now, they were super rebels! They were so hilarious I had to get a
picture to mark the occasion. We grabbed some sausages to grill, and headed
home.

After hot showers and dinner, we were all pretty exhausted. Elijah and Madison
left for the studio. Jeff and I watched “American Ninja”. It’s a TV show where
contestants have to go through an obstacle course in the shortest amount of
time. It’s pretty brutal, but since we had body surfing under our belt, we felt like
Ninjas ourselves.