Tuesday - March 26th
North Island – Whitianga

We all had some work to get done with our “Back Home Responsibilities” before
we could do anything else. Once we’d accomplished what we needed to, we
headed to the gym. We returned home, packed up and headed out to Otama
Beach.
This beach, is on the northeast coast of the Coromandel Peninsula. It’s roughly
20 km north of Whitianga. Ari isn’t too keen on beaches. She prefers cold
weather, so she decided to sit this one out and practice her saxophone, and get
ahead in Algebra II.
The four of us drove for a while in search for Black Jack Road. I don’t recall a
road this steep, winding, and narrow up, up, and up… Have you ever been
going up a hill in a car worried that it was going to flip back wards? Well, this
was what was racing inside my head. Even though I had goose bumps the entire
time (warning me how hazardous it was) the journey was quite an adventure.
With each twist and turn we were rewarded with another spectacular view out
over the Mercury Islands and beyond. Madison and I held our breath, but whew!
We made it, and it was definitely worth it.
Otama Bay is nestled at the Southern end of the Kuaotunu Peninsula. It’s a northfacing (2 km long stretch) of white-sand beach that is backed by a large
protected natural sand dune system, which separates it from the road and farm
land beyond. It is almost completely undeveloped, with only a small number of
houses, mostly holiday homes, dotted around the hills behind the eastern end of
the beach. The white sand squeaks when walked on. Which I enjoyed just as

much as Elijah. The rolling dunes and the wetland nature reserve behind it are
protected, containing delicate flora such as the rare sand tussock Austrofestuca
littoralis, and nesting areas of the endangered New Zealand dotterel bird.
We enjoyed walking all the way down both ends of the beach. On the east side
of the beach the tide was just right that we could get past the rocks to a secret
little cove. On the west side the rocks were too sharp and impassible.
By the time that we got back to Madison and Elijah they were ready to go. They
had both gotten super sunburned yesterday. So, we all agreed it was time to
go. Our beach adventure had washed up a plethora of sea life in each wave.
It brought us a puffer fish (although he was dead) and a bunch of blue jellyfish,
and their little blue star shaped babies. As we left, we gave Otama Beach a
thumbs up! Its natural beauty and abundance of solitude made this coast line a
new favorite.
Once we returned to Whitianga we dropped off Madison and Elijah at the studio.
We headed back to the house to take showers and eat Nachos for dinner. First,
we watched “Suffergette” which is a gripping movie set in England about
women’s rights. Of course, I loved it because women’s rights are something I feel
very strongly about. Plus, it’s just an excellent film. Yet, on the other hand, it was
very intense, so after a good cry I needed to change gears. We decided a
prefect pick-me-up would be “Caddy Shack”. It’s so stupid it’s hilarious!

Images

