**North Island – Whitianga**

Elijah and Madison checked out of the studio, and arrived early with all of their
stuff. This house is quite small, so we would definitely be cozy. The only proper
bedroom (with a double-sized bed) was mine and Jeff’s. The room next to ours
is the entryway of the house. It has two beds that are squeezed into the foyer.
We think it’s meant to be a family room? The front door is on the other side of a
bed so as we’re coming and going from the house, you have to pass by the
double bed that Ari sleeps on. There is also a twin-sized bed in there as well, so
we decided that the girls would share that room. In the (dining room/
bathroom/hallway) there is another double-sized bed. That is where Elijah sleeps.
It’s odd that they have beds all over the house, but many of the VRBO and Air
B&B houses have done this. It’s a tight fit, but fortunately we’re all adaptable.
Today we focused the morning on our “Back Home Responsibilities” while Jeff
met with an administrator. His research has brought him to deeper questions that
he has yet to find out. As afternoon began to drift in, we all headed to the gym
to work out. They have really serious restrictions for gym etiquette. You must
carry a gym towel everywhere, you must wash down each piece of equipment
immediately after use, you cannot chew gum, you cannot wear denim, you must
have closed toe footwear etc. If you break the law, then you get fined. Too
many fines = expulsion. It’s been the same story with every gym here. We miss
not being able to go to Snap (they aren’t in remote places), but this has been
the best “Non-Snap” place so far. The owner in Maori and about 6’6 with huge
arms filled with tattoos. He and his wife are a cute/young couple with a toddler
daughter. So, we’ve enjoyed their smiles and kindness.

Afterwards, I headed to a salon to have my hair cut and foiled. Lordy mercy… I
needed it! The hairdresser was delightful! She’s a Kiwi from Christchurch. We
talked at length about the Christchurch shooting, gun laws, extremism and personal safety. The government swiftly announced that all semi-automatic
weapons would be banned. It’s incredible to me that there were more Kiwi’s that
willingly forfeited their semi automatics to enforcement within the first 3 days after
the tragedy than the number that yet need to be collected. They did so with no
expectation to be compensated, but rather just because it was the right thing to
do. This sets an excellent message to the rest of the world. It’s a message that
they are proud of. We talked about lock downs at school in the US. She was very
surprised to hear that they are really true. They only practice for “Tsunami Alerts”.
Another interesting thing the occurred after the Christchurch shootings is that in
the first 24 hours, the blood banks were swamped with donors looking to help
out. When I heard this, my mind took me back to the week following 911. I took
Elijah (then about 15 months) to go donate blood. I sat in line for 5 hours in order
to help out in my own way. Finally, I got to the front of the line to find out that I
was ineligible to donate. Apparently, anyone who lived in the UK for more than
3-months between 1990-1995 and who ate beef were automatically disqualified
to donate because of concerns of “Mad-Cow” disease. I lived in England on a
scholarship for 5-months in 1992 and ate my share of burgers. Needless to say, I
was bummed out that I sat in line with a baby for that long and in the end I
accomplished nothing. But, my point is, that when tragedies occur, somehow…
the “best” of humanity rises to meet it. This is where the Kiwi’s are right now, still
healing, but doing so as a collective conscience - learning from the grief – and
taking action. It’s both heartbreaking yet beautiful!

In most of the cities here in NZ they have an extremely loud air-raid siren that
occasionally go off. The first time it happened we were very concerned. We were
ready to “duck and cover”. We learned back in Dunedin that it’s an alarm for
the volunteer fireman or medics. Although I’d heard it already maybe three times
or so, I was still a bit sketched out because this time I happened to be in line at
a bank in the middle of downtown. For a second, I worried that maybe the bank
was getting robbed? The siren was piercingly loud. I guess I’d always been on
the outskirts of town (not in the heat of it) when the siren blared. Especially after
all of the talk at the salon, I have to say I was apprehensive.
Later that night, we had BBQ chicken and a big salad. We played a game of
Monopoly in which Jeff was declared the winner! We discovered an assertive
side of Madison which was awesome. She and Jeff dominated for the majority
of game.

After that, we decided to play S-P-O-O-N’S. This is one of my favorite card
games. One at a time, cards get passed around the table until some one collects
“Four of a Kind”. Quickly everyone takes a spoon. The loser (who didn’t get a
spoon) gets a letter. Once you have spelled the word “SPOON” you’re out! We
get a little rowdy when playing this game, so no matter where we are we have
to close all the windows and doors completely shut to contain our excitement.
Elijah was the winner although I had a good couple wrestles with him. We
headed to bed quite late, but we had a terrific night.