**North Island – Whitianga**

In the morning we were all plugged in with our “Back Home Responsibilities”
We kept hearing sounds of cars with big engines and squealing tires. We
decided that something had to be up because the noises just kept getting
louder and louder. At first, we thought that a motorcycle gang must be in
town. Jeff did some checking online and learned that today there was a
huge car show happening right now as we spoke. We were excited to
check it out, so we got ready quick and skedaddled into town.

Jeff and I walked, while Madison and Elijah drove. We were surprised by all
of the action. Usually this small town is pretty quiet, but there was loud music
and street vendors, and even the people were all dressed in clothing from
the 50’s and 60’s. It was so much more exciting than the car shows that we
have gone to back home. Just as we were finishing up, the rain came in.
All of the fancy cars got sopping wet right along with all of the women’s
“Bee-hive” hair do’s. The rain shut it all down in less than 10 minutes.
Elijah and Madison went to the store to get fixings for burgers. Jeff grilled
them up, while Elijah made his well-known olive/mayo topping, and we
gobbled them up even faster than it took to prepare them.
We needed to resume our “Marvel Mania Marathon” so we watched
“Guardians of the Galaxy” Part 1. This time, we ran out of olive oil again so
we tried using coconut oil instead. Since we have become popcorn experts, we voted to determine who preferred their popcorn popped in
olive oil or in coconut oil. It was close… the olive lovers won 3/5 to 2/5
coconut.