Friday - March 29th
North Island – Whitianga
We woke early and got a bunch of “Back Home Responsibilities” done and out
of the way so that we could enjoy our last day with Madison. Once we had
accomplished all that we needed to do, we headed to the gym.
It’s kind of funny how quickly you can get to know people. I keep seeing people
from the gym all over town at other places. I suppose once you become a
“regular” that’s what happens. It’s a small town, so if you pay attention, you
begin to map out faces of people from one location to another. The lady you
see at the pharmacy; you also saw the next day at the resale shop. This especially
happens with people who walk their dogs. I think that this is heightened in NZ
because most dogs aren’t on a leash. They just come up to you hoping for a
scratch on the head. What’s best, is that the dogs remember you even faster
than the people. It seems like in every location there’s always a yellow lab that
endears us. It reminds of us of our first dog, Forrest.
We’re getting accustomed to being here in Whitianga. On our stays that are a
week to 10 days it’s interesting how quickly we start to blend in. It’s like once we
begin to really know a place…it’s time to move on. We often feel like gypsies…
nomads…wanderers… Just about the time we put our roots down, then it’s time
to pluck them back up and ready ourselves for the next adventure. On checkout days, when we pack up the low-rider, we’re always kind of melancholy.
However, once we get about 100 km away, we begin to get excited for what’s
to come. I think that it’s a great “Triple Life Lesson” for Elijah and Ari. Firstly, they
learn to be adaptable and flexible. Next, it shows them how to enjoy something
and still let go. Last, it’s a good thing to have choices and be able to be act
upon your free will to change things if their not working out exactly how you
planned. There’s always another rainbow, another side of the mountain, another
sunset.

Okay, I just got off track. Today was our last full day with Madison, so she got to
pick where and when we would go and do. She decided that we would go to
“Hot Sand Beach” and then on a hike to “Matarangi Bluff Walk”. So we made
up a slew of PB & Jelly sandwiches and hurried out.
Hot Water Beach is an NZ Must Do! It’s usually only visited about two hours either
side of low-tide. The sound of the surging waves is not what makes it so popular.
It’s because there is natural thermal water that bubbles just beneath the surface
of the sand.
At high tide, the beach appears much as you might expect - dramatic rolling
surf, craggy rock-edged coastline, vast horizon with the shadowy glimpse of
islands in the distance. However, at low-tide, the scene is spectacularly altered.
Roughly twice a day people can be found gathering around digging to find the
precious veins of heat.
After much uncertainty, we finally found a good spot to begin digging. People
use hand held spades for digging. Our experience was a bit frustrating though.
It’s a huge beach with so we weren’t really sure where to begin. There were so
many people out there industriously digging, we couldn’t tell who struck a hot
water pocket and who hadn’t. There was a large group of people who looked
like they had found it, but they were not willing to share. The water is pretty hot up to 147 degrees!!! So, what people do is to build their hot tub close to the
water so that the waves can reach it and add in the cold water in to mix with
the hot and then you’re able to have an awesome hot tub. Unfortunately, we
quickly realized that once you’ve gone to all the trouble to dig it, your efforts
would be quickly washed away be the same waves you needed for cooling.
Since high tide returns in the same cycle twice a day it’s inevitable that there is
no “perfect time”. Also, because the tide times vary from day to day every,
you’d have to time it perfectly. Clearly, we had not… The large group seemed
to enjoy the fruits of their labor, but the rest of us ended up SOL.
This stretch of beach is very beautiful (not like Otama or Cathedral Cove) but still
very nice. So, we enjoyed laying on the beach, going for walks, and playing at
the edge of the water. The beach surf here is extremely hazardous. It’s because
of the dangerous “rips” that even challenge the strongest of swimmers. Caution
is strictly advised! There are signs everywhere that say, “Enter water with care even when wading knee deep” This is the first beach we’ve been to that has a
lifeguard. We didn’t want to take any chances, so we only went out to our waist.
We’ve already learned how treacherous the South Pacific waves can be. We still

wanted to have time to go on a hike, so we changed our suits into walking
clothes and headed out.
We arrived at the “Matarangi Bluff Walk” around 3:00. It’s a 4.7 km loop that
takes roughly 3-hours to complete(up and down, and down and up). It’s nestled
in the hills between Matarangi and Kuaotunu on the Coromandel Peninsula. As
we entered the walk, we did the normal routine of cleaning our shoes to help
the Native Kauri trees. This trek was built entirely by volunteer labor and residents
who wanted to provide a recreational area with an educational element for the
community. In 2010, with the cooperation from local schools, students planted
more than 4000 trees.
Wilding pines have been eliminated from much of the wetland area. In return,
many native trees were planted to attract native birds into the growing forest.
The trek takes hikers through regenerative native trees and wetlands.
The beginning of the hike we headed up the bluff through a beautiful forest of
“Silver Fern”. Silver Ferns are an unofficial symbol of New Zealand’s national
identity. Their dominance in native bush, and their importance as food and
medicine, led to their common use as design elements in traditional Māori
carving. “Fernland” was its early colloquial name for New Zealand, and later the
fern was associated with the country’s products.
Long ago, the Maori ate these ferns. The part of the stem that is under the ground
contains starch, and once was used as a staple food. We now know that the
stems cause cancer. So obviously no one eats them now. However, a delicacy
are the young fiddleheads which are edible, and highly prized! I could compare
it to Morel Mushrooms for us. The trunks were once used to build houses, as
fencing (they’re slow to rot and last well under the ground). The stems were also
used to binding twine.
As we continued on the trek, it became obvious to us that the rest of the hike
wouldn’t be as wonderful. Unfortunately, it turned out to be quite a
disappointment. The Matarangi Bluff reserve has a sad past. It has been used for
over the last 170 years for forestry, mining. Now, forest regrowth has been a goal,
but it has been slow to establish. It looked like a mix of California desert and
Texas shrub brush. We totally appreciated the effort that so many people had
willingly put into it. Time was not on our side. We decided to retreat and move
on. We were bummed for Madison, because we have sent her so many pictures
and told her all about the incredible hikes we had been on in this stellar country,
and her only experience in the bush was this…

We headed back to the house to shower and so forth. Elijah coughed up a
pretty penny to take Madison to the awesome “Stoked” restaurant. Elijah got
the steak for the third time, and Madison tried the incredible Fish n’ Chips.
Once they finished dinner, they headed back to house. Since Madison was in
charge of the day, she wanted to come home with us and play games. We
played 2 different card games; “BS” and “Screw Your neighbor”. It turns out our
sweet little Madison is a bit ruthless, of course we always knew she’s a spit-fire in
hiding, so we were thrilled to see her “spread her wings”. We adore her! We
would definitely miss her…

Images

