Sunday – 3-3-19
South Island – Greymouth
We got up, packed, and were out of Wanaka ahead of schedule. Our next place in Greymouth was
only a stopping spot midway between Wanaka and Collingwood. We have turned into pros when
we transition from one house to the next. Everyone is responsible for certain things, and our routine
has become our new normal. It’s really a rather interesting feeling to be tied down to nothing. The
only thing that goes with us is the “Low-rider” and all the stuff we can fit in there. Space is a premium
so we are always mindful of what we haul around with us. What’s interesting is that each time we
arrive in a new place within an hour, we can unpack, claim our new space, and it becomes “home”.
Jeff and I think it’s a valuable life lesson to be versatile and adaptive. Once you realize that everything
is only temporary, it allows you to be open to the present without perseverating on the past or worrying
about the future. The life lesson is that “Home” really is where your heart is.
By the time we arrived in Greymouth, we were super hungry because we skipped lunch. Because is
was a Sunday evening just about everything was closed. This gave us two choices; a little Chinese
take-out place that looked sketchy or McDonalds. Jeff went with the take-out, and the kids and I
decided we didn’t want to risk so we had McDonalds. I paid $18 dollars for a chicken sandwich that
was horrendously dry and chewy… (what was I thinking).
Once we arrived at the house we unloaded, unpacked, then Jeff and I needed some exercise after
being cooped-up in the car. So we took a walk on Karoro Beach. We were surprised that no one
was out there… It was so vast, it seemed to go on and on for as far as the eye could see. We walked
about 3 miles, and then headed back to the house because we were so hungry. This is the link:
Description:https://www.airbnb.co.nz/rooms/31055836?guests=1&adults=1
While we ate, we continued on with “Marvel Mania” and watched Thor 1. We headed to bed at a
descent hour, because we knew we’d have another long drive tomorrow to get to Collingwood.

Images

