**North Island – Whitianga**

We all got up early because we wanted to “see-off” Madison. She and Elijah were
heading the 4 hours northwest to Auckland. Her flight departed at 5 am on Monday
so they wanted to be near the airport that way it wouldn’t be a hassle. Super early in
the morning. They figured they would head out a day early to “Paint the Town Red”
(well… it was a Saturday night) right?

I had been trying to find a time for Ari and I to have a “Girls Day” with Elijah gone
today was perfect. We got ourselves together and walked into town (since Elijah had
the car in Auckland). First, we went to a re-sale shop. Ari got a white tank top and I
got a men’s shirt that would double as a beach cover-up. Then, we went to another
re-sale shop and I found a long red shirt and a necklace. All together we spent $7
NZ which is about $4.50 American. It’s been so much fun for all of us at the re-sale
shops because they have cool retro stuff for a fraction of the cost.
After shopping, we went to lunch at SALT. The two fancy restaurants in town are
Stoked and SALT. We had already been at Stoked twice with my parents, so we
thought we’d check it out. We sat outside over-looking the marina and had a lovely
lunch. We shared roasted potatoes, broccoli and cauliflower, and a salad with fresh
greens and lots of Asiago cheese. It was delicious! But, the greatest part about our
lunch were the heartfelt conversations. I’m 50 years old, and I never imagined 30
years ago that I’d have a daughter. I’m so honored to be her mother. She is the
blessing in my life that reminds me most of who I am, and she pushes me to be the
best reflection of who I want to be. As she leans into the woman she will become, I
treasure the moments her youth. Time is moving so fast. I look to the present with joy…
but I can still appreciate the little girl she once was. I couldn’t be more proud of her.
I always tell her “Someday, when I grow up, I want to be just like you…” She has the
gift of being present.

After lunch we went to the gym to workout. There was no one there, so we used our
fobs to get in. It felt kind of odd (like we were doing something wrong) since no one
was there. Can you imagine how strange it is for a business to give their customers
the keys to their store? Finally, a young boy around Ari’s age came in so we felt
relieved.

After we worked-out, we went to get ice cream. Oh my… it was divine! I got
boysenberry with salted caramel and Ari got vanilla with strawberries. We decided
that the salted caramel was the best. We ate it as we walked home. We decided
that since we had a healthy lunch and worked out that the ice cream cancelled
itself out.

We got home around 6:00 pm. For dinner we had tacos and we had a second
dessert of popcorn while we watched “Talladega Nights” with Will Ferrell. We just
love all of his movies because he is so hilarious! I’ll treasure this day and look forward
to oh so many more!