**North Island – Whitianga**
 
Jeff and I woke early and took care of “Back Home Responsibilities”. Since Elijah
would be in Auckland until tomorrow, that gave us all the day to just catch-up/getahead. Jeff and I are collaborating on another piece, (Our 5th) so I spent the morning
doing research and finding inspiration. Usually, when I write something it helps to learn
as much as I can about the facts around it. Information gathering is the most
interesting part of the process. Many times, it’s just a matter of chance (what rabbit
holes will I go into?). Once I connect with the emotion around the topic, then I can
feel moved by it. The rest is the easy part; it’s like turning on a light… it just writes itself.
Later, Jeff and I walked into town to workout. Since it was a Sunday, it was quite
busy. We felt like we finally got caught back up from our gap of no gym in
Collingwood and Portage. Unfortunately, next were heading to Russell for 3 weeks,
so we’ll once again fall behind. Bummer…

Once we returned, we went right back to working on the projects from this morning.
Later, I took a long walk down the beach. The rain has been off and on all week. It’s
sunny one minute, and pouring the next. So, I had a little bit of both. It’s just as pretty
here either way. I love to walk in the rain. It feels like each step is much more sacred.
Fall has began here, so the leaves on the trees are starting to turn orange and red.
I’m eager to see what it will look like in the rainforest in autumn. I’m sure it will be
stunning.