**South Island (Golden Bay) Collingwood**

Today Jeff got up early and began composing. Once Elijah and I woke up, he and
Jeff went to the nearby town of Takaka to work out. Takaka is bigger than Collingwood
I would say kind of like Sutton’s Bay. That’s where we had to get our groceries (because
there is only a small store in Collingwood). I didn’t want to go to work out because it
was an old yucky gym and I couldn’t have used any of the equipment. I was just as
happy to stay behind and write while I waited for Ari to wake up.

Once Jeff and Elijah returned, they had a big breakfast and then Elijah and Ari, and I
went down to the beach for an adventure. The tide was out so we wanted to see how
far out we could walk before we reached the water. We started where the highest line
from high tide where the sand was still wet. The patterns in the sand looked at though
they were ribbed. We caught a little crab and sent him back into the water. It was
amazing how far out we got. The shore looked as if it was miniaturized. Elijah checked
his phone… We had walked out just over a mile! We couldn’t believe it!

After we arrived back home, we had appetizers for dinner. We ate while we played
“Monopoly Wars” Ari won again! The Monopoly edition we’ve been playing all this time
is the NZ version. Elijah had bought it at the beginning of the trip. We like to pay
attention to all of the places that are the locations we’ve been to here in real life.
Ironically enough, the one property that was not bought was “Golden Bay”.

As evening came the game we continued “Marvel Mania” and watched “Iron Man
3”. Of course, we also had popcorn!