**South Island (Golden Bay) Collingwood**

Today we visited Te Waikoropupū Springs Scenic Reserve. It is located in the Takaka
Valley about 6 km west of Takaka Township.

The "Pupu" (as it is affectionately known to the locals) are home to the clearest spring
water in the world (the only place with clearer water is the salt water Weddell Sea in
Antarctica). Underwater clarity tests have shown the water from the springs to have
underwater visibility of over 200.

The translation from Maori for Te Waikoropupu means “Place of the Dancing Sands"
refers to how its white sandy bottom is forced upward through the water by force of
the spring. As it does so, it allows the sand particles to temporarily float making them
appear as if they are dancing.

All contact with the water from these springs is strictly forbidden. They are a sacred
treasure in which are said to have the highest cultural and spiritual regard for the
Maori. The Maori have worshipped at these springs for over 700 years. These springs
are the largest in New Zealand, and among some of the largest springs in the world.
As we followed the path through the reserve, we came to boardwalks that led us to
the springs. As we got closer, all of us (other onlookers) lowered our voices as a sign
of respect. We we stood there, a younger couple approached, he jumped the
fence rail and took out two water bottles and filled them up. We couldn’t believe it!
How incredibly rude! We were all terribly offended by their selfishness.
Once we returned home Jeff grilled chicken skewers, and we mixed them with a rye
pasta. It was outstanding! After that, we continued “Marvel Mania” by watching
Captain America 2.