Friday, March 8
Portage – “Bay of Islands” - South Island
We left Collingwood and headed north on highway 1 to the “Bay of Islands”.
Here we would meet my parents (George and Cheryl Knight). They had been
vacationing in Australia and came to NZ to visit while we’re here for Jeff’s
sabbatical. This is their 5th time here. So we were excited to be able to share the
adventure with them.
The plan was that we would meet at the “Portage House” around 3-4 pm. We
traveled for about 5 hours through Nelson and on to Havelock. We knew that
once we traveled up into the mountains there would be no civilization at all.
Havelock is the only place to get gas and food. We stopped at the tiny grocery
store (think 711) and fueled up. The “Portage” house was over an hour up into
the mountains. The road is what we would consider one way as it winds perilously
on the edge of steep cliffs with no guardrails. If another vehicle is coming from
the other direction you have to slow down and hold your breath as you pass

hoping not to rip off each others side mirrors. Once we got to the driveway was
about a 45-degree incline for at least a quarter of a mile.
As we pulled in we were stunned! It was not a house… it was a mansion. It was
a three level Mediterranean style complex with extraordinary views, decor and
facilities repeatedly referred to as ‘Paradise’. The property offers vast 270 degree
elevated views of the Kenepuru Sound, the Portage and Waitaria Bays. It had
two master bedrooms with private bathrooms. Downstairs there are 3 more
bedrooms for the kids. There was a pool table games room / gymnasium
attached to the double garage which include a four-person hot tub, sauna,
weights, rowing machine and massage chair. To the west, the 140 square meter
deck with covered pool looks directly into the delightful ‘Take-in bay’. A quiet
secluded beach with good walking access.
Our host, Guy, was very welcoming and gracious. He even offered Elijah to use
his jet-ski. His wife Paula had left the cupboards stacked with food. This is the link
to the house https://www.vrbo.com/20042557ha We had arrived before George
and Cheryl. So we unpacked the blue low-rider and got ourselves organized.
As the evening came, we found out that George and Cheryl’s flight had been
cancelled. They wouldn’t be able to get here until tomorrow. This was a bummer
because we only had 4 days together to begin with. Their hands were tied so
we all decided that although we were disappointed we’d see each other the
next day.
Jeff and I decided we needed to get a walk in, and the kids decided they were
going to take a swim in the pool. We were curious what was up at the top of the
road. So we did the climb to find it was another house even bigger even further
up. They had censors in the driveway so we decided to not snoop.
Instead, we took the long trek down to the beach. The trail that led to the beach
was wrapped in huge ferns. You can see why NZ symbol is the fern. Here is an
up-close view of one curling in from the center. This beach converges two bays
depending on the tide. Here is a view of the beach with our house up above.
The owner of the house told us that their friends moor their boat in this cove. You
can see it in the picture as well. It was low tide, so we were able to walk on the
rocks to explore the estuaries that remain once the tide has ebbed. We found
petrified wood (like the petrified forest we had been to earlier). We wondered
how many millions of years old it was? Because NZ has the majority of it’s land
reserved as national parks, as visitors we often feel like were alone in the
untouched wilderness. It really is paradise! As we were leaving the beach,

nestled in one of the tidal pools, Jeff found a little blue starfish who was still alive
but wouldn’t be for long. I scooped him up and softly tossed him back into the
water where he would be safe. It reminded me of the above poem. It’s all a
matter of perspective, isn’t it?
After we returned to the house we made tropical drinks, listened to Bob Marley,
and sat in the hot tub until the sun began to set. We knew we were in paradise!

Images

