**Portage - South Island**

We got up and had omelets for breakfast. We were looking forward to George
and Cheryl’s arrival today. We weren’t sure what time they would get here, but
we figured that we should try to get ahead on our “back home responsibilities”
before they get here.

The morning flew by quickly. Around noon all four of us walked down to the
beach to explore. This time it was high tide, so much of what we saw yesterday
was hidden in the water. Below the house on the other side there is a small
another bay whose shore housed a lodge with rooms and a restaurant. It is also
a major hub for the water taxi’s that connect each of the bays to one another
The route by car is much more complicated and many of the islands have no
cars at all.

As we walked further, we came upon some Norfolk Pines. Jeff and I have
decided that they are the most interesting and beautiful tree here in NZ. This tree
thrives throughout the South Pacific. It’s so unique because of its symmetrical
branches. In the picture you can see an up close of the Norfolk Pine.

The picture of the four of us below was taken of the dock. Elijah is pointing to our
house in the background up on the hill. The other picture is of the dock from the
far side of the lodge. The picture of Elijah with the palms near the restaurant in
the lodge.

The bird under the hedge is called a “Weka. There are known as a Maori hen.
They are flightless birds. They are omnivores that feed mainly on invertebrates
and flowers and fruit. Most people consider them a nuisance because they are
curious, but if you get too close they will charge you.

We were eager for George and Cheryl to arrive. Their cell phone charge was
low, and they still needed to navigate the twisty road to get to where we were.
The picture below is us heading back up the hill. We prepared dinner, Jeff BBQ
chicken and Ari and I made smashed cauliflower (it takes the place of mashed
potatoes). Once they finally got there, we had appetizers ready. We all sat on
the deck and enjoyed cocktails it was great to all be together again.