Monday – April 1
North Island – Whitianga

Jeff and I woke early. He wanted to show me the sunrise over Mercury Bay.
We quickly scrambled down to the beach in record time. Since it’s been
cloudy and rainy for quite while, we weren’t sure if it would be prominent
enough to get past the haze and fog. While we stood there waiting, a flock
of “Grey Noddies” swarmed in front of us at the waters edge.
The “Grey Noddy” is a small, and delicate sea bird. “Grey Noddies” fly with
deep-winged lifts, that appear as if they are floating, and look almost magical
in their dances while in flight. They breed on the coasts of tropical islands in
the Southern Pacific Ocean. In NZ, they breed near “Poor Knights” Island
(where we went SCUBA diving). There, the warm sea temperatures of late
summer provide the best conditions for mating. They roost just about
anywhere, such as cliffs, or sheltered rocky ground, on beaches with beach
grass, or in bushy vegetation. “Grey Noddies” feed in flocks over lagoons and
inshore waters, often over upwelling currents. They are often sighted in the
“Hauraki Gulf”, “Coromandel Peninsula”, and the “Bay of Plenty”. They usually
forage in flocks close to shore. They fly low over the water using quick, shallow
wing-beats, dipping to catch prey at the surface. They often hover close to
the water, while searching for prey such as krill, tiny fish, squid, and small crabs.
We stood there mesmerized at the exquisite waves they created in the air.
We can’t help but wonder how they decide who will lead the flock, and how
do they fly with such refined precision.

As the sun’s glow began to peak up through the clouds, the sky filled with a
glorious blend of red, orange, and yellow all intermingling into the most
picturesque pink I have ever seen. Just as we were soaking it all in, the sun was
interrupted by a thick cover of of dark clouds. I had just enough time to snap
this picture before it all turned back to gray, white, and purple. We stood
there, still observing the “Grey Noddies” as they made crazy eights and other
aerial weaves through the sky. Another gift from nature!
The rain never let-up today. We were concerned because Elijah had to drive
four hours through the mountains in order to get back to us in Whitianga. The
fog and slippery roads would make it a challenge. Plus, we knew that he
probably stayed up late and had to get up super early so fatigue might add
to the safety factor. It’s so tough to not worry about your kids. They really
need to have their independence to grow into the humans that they will
become. However, it’s also difficult to sit back and keep your mouth shut.
They have no idea (until they have kids of their own) how much we sit in the
shadows and bite our tongues. Fortunately, he arrived safely just as Madison
arrived in Sydney. Her long flight from Sydney to Dallas was only 15 hours
instead of 18 hours. That shaved off 3 hours making it more palatable. We
waited with bated breath for her to make her connection. Once she was on
the flight to Dallas, we all took a sigh of relief.
The rain continued to persistent all day. Ari and I went to the gym to work out.
It was busy, so we made our way through training by dodging others to get to
the machines. The rain must’ve drove everyone in to do the same thing.
Later, Jeff and I decided that we didn’t care if we got wet, but we needed
to go for a walk regardless. Let me tell you how that worked… It didn’t! We
were hammered by the rain so hard that it blinded us. So much for that. We
were laughing full belly laughs and felt like we were five…it was awesome!
We wanted to have a special dinner for Elijah because we knew he would be
sad because Madison left, so we had steak and green beans, his favorite. Jeff
grilled them up on the BBQ while it continued to pour on and off (what a
trooper). Ari and I whipped up roasted green beans, onions, and peppers. I
think it helped make things a little better for Elijah.
After dinner, we all got cozy as the rain continued its spastic waltz upon the
top of the tin roof. We continued our “Marvel Mania” watching “Guardians of
the Galaxy“part 2, and Jeff made popcorn (our habitual crutch). Ohhh… it is
so good!

Images

