**North Island – Russell**

Today we decided to spend the morning completing our “Back Home Responsibilities”.
Elijah has released some of his programming work to a public sharing domain, and has
had excellent responses (as well as job offers). He’s continuing to find his way through
the world of coding. Ari is way ahead on her on-line classes, and is progressing with an
A in both Chemistry and Algebra II. She has been keeping herself busy with her videovlogs. She is so excited to start her classes in film production, directing, and
management this fall. I’ve been busy working on a new book, getting ready to launch
my current book, writing poetry, and working on my website.
Later in the afternoon, we took the ferry back to Paihia to workout. Paihia is bigger
than Russell. The “Bay of Islands”, is a jewel of the North Island. The seaside resort towns
of Paihia, Russell, Opua, Kerikeri, and Waitangi are all lovely places that you couldn’t
go wrong in visiting. My favorite is Russell because of it’s classy vibe. It’s both artsy and
casual. This is the most northerly location that we plan to go to in NZ. There are 144
islands that make up the “Bay of Islands”. Everywhere you see water, you’ll also see an
island. Most of the time it’s hard to tell whether you’re seeing the coast or just another
island… and yes… it’s more beautiful than what pictures give it the justice. Sometimes,
this whole experience feels like a dream. It’s been so healing to each of us to have the
opportunity to discover who and what we really want out of life, and at the same time
it has brought us so much closer together. In the end… debt is just debt… but nothing
in this world can replace the opportunities we have been given to become better
people and to unify our connection to one another more.

Before dinner, Jeff and I watched the sunset. This time it was still covered in clouds, but
it was still a sight to behold. We just love the sunset it gives us an opportunity to reflect
on the day and consider what we could have done differently, and what we hope for
in the future.

Ari made a wonderful chicken with rice casserole that we all enjoyed. After dinner,
we continued of “Marvel Mania” by watching “Aqua man”. Even though he is from
the DC Universe, the movie itself has a great storyline. We’re almost to the end of
marvel hero’s which means we’ll start tapping into DC more and more. The next Marvel
to come out in the theatres is “End Game”. We can’t wait to see it! In the aftermath
of “Thanos” wiping out half of all life in the universe, the Avengers must do what's
necessary to undo the Mad Titan's corruption and deeds. Da Da Da… It comes to the
theaters here on April 24th. We’re eager to see how it turns out.