**North Island – Russell**

Today we all went our own ways, and did what we wanted to do alone. Jeff worked
on composing, Elijah continued his work on publishing to the public domain, Ari was
doing video research, and I wrote and then took a long walk to explore the back
woods of Russell.

I followed the steep road behind our house to the very top of the hill. I was so
surprised to find that the Ocean was on the other side! It was so exciting! As I started
my way down the hill, it curved at a small cemetery set right beside the sea. It
reminded me of “Anna Belle Lee” from Edgar Allan Poe.

I’m not afraid of cemeteries, I actually enjoy the quiet, and often try to seek out the
oldest gravestone amongst the many. I’m always curious, how a cemetery (not
attached to a church) gets started in the first place? You see, I find them senseless
and a little bit selfish in some ways. It just takes up valuable space on earth –eternally.
Imagine if all of the cemeteries on earth were turned into playgrounds or parks? I
can’t remember where I was, but that’s exactly what it was. There was a memorial
wall set into a park. There were children laughing, and people picnicking, and dogs
running around. The people in the memorial garden were remembered by a small
square on the wall with their name and about 100 words about them. These people
were all cremated, and their ashes are used to enrich the soil in the flowerbeds. I just
think that is beautiful! I wish I could remember where it was? That personally makes
so much more sense to me. Ashes to ashes…dust to dust…

Yet, today I was too fascinated by the spectacular coastline, beach, and cliffs in
front of my eyes to go seek out the eldest stone. I walked to almost the base of the
hill, and found a path that led into the woods. Naturally, I had to follow it. There was
a sign that said “Waitata Bay Space Covenant.” The path led me along the face of
a cliff that followed the shoreline. Eventually it took me to a secluded beach in the
next cove (only accessible by boat or through the path that I was on). Ahead, I
could see two huge mansions above me set on top of the cliff. It looked like someone
was at the other end of the beach laying in the sun. From a distance it was hard to
see them clearly…I kept walking down the beach until I realized that they were
sunbathing… without a suit. Oh…No! I quickly did an about face and retreated back
to the path. I followed the path back to the other cove, I was just about there when
I looked up and found Jeff. We both surprised! Of all of the zillion places we could
have gone… We both ended up in the same place. Serendipity! I wanted to go
explore the shoreline on “Long Beach” on the opposite end of the coast, and he
wanted to go back to the top of the hill and explore that direction, so we took a
quick kiss, and continued our own adventures.

“Long Beach” is in the process of restoring the wild beach grasses that support the
beach from erosion. Once I followed the coast as far as I could, I back tracked my
steps to the cemetery.

My adventure had just begun, so I wasn’t ready to head back home quite yet. I
noticed a paved walkway just beyond the cemetery, so I was curious to where it was
going to go. It took me through a tunnel covered with vinery, past a few gardens,
and into a beautiful little trail that seemed to be hibernating from humanity. I knew I
was heading southwest because I could see the sun above me, eventually I would
meet up with the harbor, so I kept going. Just as I thought, it did take me to the
harbor.

At this point, I still didn’t want to end my adventure, so I carried on until I found
another path labeled “Fladgate Recreational Reserve”. I thought…hummm… I’ll go
check this out. It took me into a valley covered almost entirely with tall underbrush,
“Silverferns”, and ivy literally everywhere. I could hear the calls of a “Weka” in the
bushes. It was a pleasant walk through regenerating coastal bush beside the stream
to “Waihihi Bay” (Brick Bay). I saw many little Kingfishers as well as Pheasants, Quail,
Fantails, and “Kereru” Wood Pigeons. The seaward end of the track, (at low tide)
can be walked around. The rocks and beaches of “Tapeka Point “can be reached
by turning right. However, the tide was high… so I went left.

I continued through “Kanuka Shrubs” still following along the “Waipara Stream and
Wetlands”. It was there along the path that I came across a Weka. Apparently they
have been successfully reintroduced to the Russell Peninsula by the “Land Care
Trust”. It walked right up to me with no fear at all. No wonder they’re becoming
endangered.

I continued on until I reached another very steep hill up. On the horizon, poking high
over the trees was a white cross. It was huge, so I was eager to see if it was a church
or something symbolic…Little did I know I’d stumbled onto the “Flagstaff Reserve”.
The historic “Hone Heke” flagpole was standing right before me. The view was “blow
you mind” beautiful. It is the ultimate viewing spot of the entire “Bay of Islands”. The
hill was called “Te Maiki” and is the geographic center of all of the islands in the
various bays as far as the eye can see).

The location was once an important signaling point in the early days after the British
colonials raised their flag on the Flag post. The Maori Chief, “Hone Heke” cut down
the pole and sacked the town of Russell (in Maori “Kororareka)”. Heke was afraid
that the colonials would rob their lands and reduce them into slavery. The British kept
putting up flag posts, only to have the Maori cut them down. THIS HAPPENED 5 TIMES!!!

After many battles and losses of life a compromise (not really) was reached. Finally,
the current flag pole was erected by the Maori in 1857 as a token of peace and
subservience to the British Crown. The wind was fierce so fierce that I had to brace
myself for fear of getting blown away. I stood there for a while just picoting around
in circles amazed at what was before me. It was breathtakingly incredible. After
about 15 minutes I decided to head back.

As I was about to take a different route back, I realized that there was another path
heading in the opposite direction. I had steered myself pretty well on this adventure,
so I figured I would check it out. It led me down “Te Maiki” and then up another
nearby hill. The walk spiraled a bit until I came to a huge sundial sculpture. It was
resting on a colorful mosaic tiled base. This too had exceptional views. The 360
degree views, of the Bay of Islands and Pacific Ocean were second to none. There
was also an interesting plaque on the sundial that recognizes the centennial of the
New Zealand Institute of Surveyors. Further, it explains how to convert sundial time to
NZ Standard and NZ Daylight Saving time. No one was there, so I had it all to myself.
I thought it would be a great place to do Tai Chi. Up on top of the world – and yet
on the bottom of the world. So, I worked on my second circle work. It’s amazing how
little of it I remembered. Yikes… I think it had been maybe 3 years since I stopped
practicing. I sat there after I was done and just counted my blessings.
Once I returned to the house, I realized I’d been gone for 3 hours and I had walked
over 7 miles! It felt great! Jeff BBQ chicken wings and Ari and I prepared a salad.
We all sat down together and had our meal. I couldn’t help but feel filled with
gratitude for everything.

Later, we watched Aqua Man again. We had started it kind of late last night and
only got about half way through, so thought we’d watch it in its entirety.