Friday – April 12th
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

We all got up and headed to the ferry so that we could work out at the gym in Paihia.
Along the way, we stopped at a recycling center to get rid of our recycling and trash.
Here in NZ they recycle almost everything. The centers are everywhere, but they are
very picky about “how” to recycle. We have to break everything into different types
of materials and physically put them in the right bin at the center (the public sorts it
out the recycling not the trash companies). There are different colored bins for
different things; paper, aluminum cans, white plastic, clear plastic, colored plastic,
green glass, clear glass, brown glass, etc… Also, you have to pay $3 for each bag of
refuse that cannot be recycled. But, here’s the catch, you have to walk up to the
edge of the landfill and physically pitch in in the enormous pile yourself. It’s not
hidden so that you can let go your part of the problem. You have to stand there,
and smell the stench and realize what “we” are doing to the earth. This way, each
person becomes critically aware of their personal responsibility. This is why many
people here do not shop through amazon or other online retailers. The amount of
waste that shipping creates is unacceptable to the Kiwi’s. They also will not buy items
in stores that have a ridicules amount of packaging. It’s not like only about 60%-70%
of the people we have met are like this… it’s EVERYONE! Almost every home we
have stayed at has not had a garbage disposal either. Many people use composts.
The recycling center is always a madhouse to go to. But, we can’t help but feel so
much better about ourselves taking full responsibility for our waste. I just can’t see
people back home in the US following through with all of the details that would be
required to do this same thing as here. Personally, I feel saddened that most people
just don’t want to be bothered. The picture above “Why are you littering” I took at
a roadside park. The word “Whenua” is Maori and it has two meanings both “land”
and “placenta”. How fitting is that?
After we were finished at the recycling center, I was excited to show everyone my
exciting hiking finds from yesterday. So as soon as we got home we headed out.
Once we got to the top of “Te Maiki” (the geographic center of all of the islands in

the “Bay of Islands) they were shocked at how beautiful it was to have this
perspective from a bird’s eye view. I took them to the Flag Post and the sundial. We
welcomed the wind because the hike up was pretty steep. Once we returned to the
house, they could look out over the balcony overlooking Russell, they could get the
full picture of their surroundings. We could see the Treaty grounds across the bay and
Te Maiki to the right of us high on the mountain. Jeff and I enjoyed a glass of Pinot
Nior from a local vineyard on the deck.
Later that night, I made Chinese chicken stir-fry, and played Euchre. Elijah and I beat
Jeff and Ari. Then, we watched my new favorite show, “Comedians in Cars Having
Coffee”. It’s hosted by Jerry Seinfeld who picks different celebrities to have coffee
with, and he matches their personality to really cool cars. I’m not sure why I’m so in
love with the show? I can’t help but laugh through most of the episodes. I’ve been
eager to share it with Elijah and Ari, so I was really excited to watch a couple of
episodes with them. They didn’t really seem that interested in it.

Images

