**North Island – Russell**

Happy Palm Sunday! We were excited to check out the church here in Russell
because it is the “Oldest Church in New Zealand”. It’s a 3-minute walk from our
house. It’s called the “Anglican Church of the Bay of Islands”. The locals call it;
“Te Whare Karakia o Kororareka” (Christ’s Church in Russell). It is also New
Zealand’s oldest building that is still used for its original purpose. The people of
Russell believe it is a “Taonga” our (treasure) of the heart. Jeff and I were greeted
at the door in Maori “Haere mai, haere mai, haere mai” (an offer a warm
welcome to all).

Missionaries purchased land in 1834 from “Kororareka” (Russell) chiefs who
agreed that Maori and Pakeha (Europeans) should have equal rights of burial.
The fundraising subscription list for the church survives with names of missionaries,
settlers, traders and ships’ captains. The building began later that year.
According to official records, the first service was on the 3rd of January 1836.
Services were conducted in both English and Maori languages. In 1963 the
church welcomed Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip to visit and receive
services. In 1986 the church marked its 150th birthday in the presence of the then
NZ Governor General, Sir Paul Reeves and NZ Prime Minister David Lange. In
2000, Christ’s Church was extensively restored and today continues to draw a
constant stream of visitors who enjoy its sense of history, its tranquility, and its
“Wairua” (spiritual atmosphere).

Another early donor to “Te Whare Karakia o Kororareka” (Christ’s Church in
Russell) was the world renowned, “Charles Darwin”. He came to NZ for 9 days in
December 1835. At the time, Darwin was on a five-year expedition. This was his
opportunity to collect specimens from around the world. Darwin, was a 26-year-old promising naturalist and recent Cambridge graduate when he set sail in
December 1831. He arrived in the “Bay of Islands” four years later. Darwin was ill
and homesick by the time he touched ground in NZ. During his stay, Darwin
collected insects, shells, plants, fish, rocks and a gecko. His detailed observations
were carefully recorded in his journal of the “Beagle Expedition”, which was
published to much acclaim in 1839. He later wrote that the voyage had been,
“by far, the most important event in my life, and has determined my whole
career”.

SIDE NOTE … Ironically, as I write this, I’ve literally just learned that “Notre Dame Cathedral” on
fire! It’s currently engulfed with flames.! There are firefighters inside who are seriously at risk of
the huge bells falling on them. The cathedral’s corner stone was laid in 1163 by Pope
Alexander III, and the cathedral was completed in the 13th century. I’ve just learned that the
spire has fallen, but the two towers have been saved. I can’t help but think about all of the
historical artifacts that are in jeopardy (including a piece of the wood from Jesus’ cross, a nail
from his hand, and the crown that he wore). All of the artwork is also in peril. The central spire
(built was built at the same time as Victor Hugo's novel "The Hunchback of Notre-Dame" in
1831) is about to fall. This horrible nightmare is weirdly unfolding during “Holy Week” in
preparation for Jesus’ death and resurrection. Ugggg…. I pray that they’re able to stop it.

It was especially interesting that instead of waving palms, they wove “Kauri”
branches. The scripture was Luke 23: 1-49. After it was read, there was a LONG
pause of silence. Then, during our prayer time they played “He was Despised”
from “The Messiah” by Handel.
Next, they did the “Passing of Peace” (Congregational Greetings) after singing;

Let the be peace and love
Among all beings of the universe
Te Rangimarie, Te Rangimarie
Peace, Shalom, Aroha

Then, they did the Offertory, which is a traditional Maori hymn.
Tama ngākau mārie
Tama a te Atua
Tēnei tonu mātou
Arohaina mai

Son of peace
Son of God
here we are always.
Show us compassion.

Murua rā ngā hara
Wetekina mai
Ēnei here kino
Wakararu nei.

Wipe away our sins,
and unshackle
these ties
that are so troublesome.

Takahia ki raro
Tau e kino ai
Kei pā kaha tonu

Trample down
things wronged to you
lest they gather strength,

Hōmai he aroha
Mōu i mate nei
Tēnei ra e Ihu
Tākina e koe

Grant that we may have love
for You who died
May this be so Jesus,
that you lead us.

Tēnei arahina
A tutuki noa
Puta i te pōuri
Whiwhi hari nui.

This is where we wish to be led
to a good end,
overcoming darkness
and attaining paradise.

After that, we had communion. Each person went to the alter to kneel and receive our “Holy
Sacrament”. They offered it with real red wine and everyone drank out of the same cup.
Instead, I dipped my wafer in the wine. I just couldn’t bring myself to allow my lips on a cup
that half of the congregation already drank from. Actually, I watched closely, and there were
a few other people who did it the same way as I did. I meant no disrespect, but I was relieved.

The Lord’s Prayer in Maori
E te Atua to matou Matua, kua hara matou ki a koe i roto i o matou
whakaaro, i a matou kupu, i a matou mahi, he mea na to matou ake he, kihai
hoki matou i tino aroha ngakau kia a koe; kihai matou i aroha ki o matou hoa
tata ano ko matou ano; kihai to matou aroha ki tetahi i rite ki tou aroha ki a
matou. Tohungia matou; otira, murua o matou hara, awhinatia hoki matou kia
kore ai o matou he; kia mahi matou ki a koe i roto i te orangatanga hou; ko
Ihu Karaiti hoki to matou Ariki. Amine.

Benedicite Aotearoa
O give thanks to our God who is good:
whose love endures for ever.
You… sun and moon, you stars of the southern sky:
Sunrise and sunset, night and day:
give to our God your thanks and praise.
All mountains and valleys, grassland and scree,
glacier, avalanche, mist and snow:
You… kauri and pine, rata and kōwhai, mosses and ferns:
Dolphins and kahawai, sealion and crab,
coral, anemone, pipi and shrimp:
Rabbits and cattle, moths and dogs
kiwi and sparrow and tūī and hawk:
You…Māori and Pākehā, women and men,
all who inhabit the long white cloud:
All you saints and martyrs of the South Pacific:
give to our God your thanks and praise.

After the service, Jeff and I took a few pictures and then we went up to the
balcony to get a different perspective of the alter. In the balcony, there was a
painting on the wall depicting Jesus, Mary, a scholar, 3 cherubs, a Maori king, a
slave, and a hooded unknown figure. You can see that there is a stem of NZ flax
on the bottom left. After searching for a while, I was unable to obtain any
information about it. Although it spoke to me. It will just have to be a mystery…