**North Island – Russell**

We all got up and headed to the ferry so that we could work out at the gym in
Paihia. We usually go on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Sometimes it’s hard
to get in the swing of it (physically) on Mondays because we’ve had a two-day
gap in between. When we got to the gym it was super busy. I’ll be excited to
get to our next destination that has a “Snap Fitness”.

Since it was another beautiful day, Jeff and I headed to “Long Beach” again.
We were eager to soak up the last days of summer. The glorious rays of the sun
here seem so much more magical as they dance across the water. The rustle of
the waves seems to reach and then retreat from shore with a stronger force of
gravity than our waves back home. Here they are chaotic. Back home they’re
rhythmic. Listening to them lick the shoreline always brings with it an element of
surprise. Here in the Southern Hemisphere, waves do not reach the beach
perfectly parallel to the shoreline. Rather, they arrive at a slight angle. This angled
impact with the coastline sets up a current that moves asymmetrically to the
shore. They call this “Longshore Currents”. This effect is very powerful during
storms because they erode sediments off a beach and transport them in the
direction of the current. If you watch closely you can notice a difference.
We’ve so enjoyed learning about all of the native flowers here in NZ. A few new
ones are the Rata, Koromiko, and Kaka Beak. All of which are still in bloom in the
North Island right now.

About 2 hours later, we decided to head home and get some work done. On
our way, we thought we’d walk in to town to get groceries for dinner. We pickedup chicken on skewers for Jeff to BBQ, and I made a salad to go with it.
After dinner we sat and watched the sunset, it was phenomenal! A cruise ship
came in to our little harbor. Usually, they stay in deeper water, so we were
surprised to see them so close. It was entertaining to watch them shuttle to and
from the boardwalk. Once the dark rushed in we went inside to watch “John
Oliver” on TV, and then headed to bed.