Tuesday – April 16th
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

Jeff and I got up early. While we were typing away at our computers the
continued updates kept spilling in about the outcome of the damage at Notre
Dam. We have been there several times… so we were eager to hear the results
of the fire.
Apparently, it burned through centuries-old oak beams supporting its vaulted
stone ceiling. This, dangerously weakened it. They believe a "computer glitch"
might have been behind the blaze. Investigators think a short-circuit most likely
the cause.
So far, about a billion dollars has been pledged to help restore the landmark.
The cathedral is home to exquisite religious artifacts, paintings, sculptures and
other priceless works of art. The “Crown of Thorns” Jesus wore at his crucifixion, a
piece of his wooden cross, and a nail that was in his hand. Fortunately, none of
the artifacts nor artwork were damaged.
In the midst of this tragedy, “Yellow Vest Protesters” have continued to hold
violent demonstrations against President Emmanuel Macron. They have set
hundreds of life-threatening fires, smashed up luxury stores and clashed with
police. The “Champs-Elysees” Avenue, was struck by them where a mother and
her child were just barely saved from a building blaze.
I just can’t wrap my head around ANY demonstration that is not done peacefully.
If it has the potential for harm, or it seeks retribution, then it cannot be taken

seriously. I personally feel that “damaging” acts of violence don’t deserve the
validation that are being sought.
In the afternoon, I took a long walk with Elijah. It’s been so nice to have time with
him. We’re trying to soak up as much as we can of him while we can. Once we
return home we’ll have very little time together this summer. We’ll be renting our
house for the summer in order to offset a portion of our substantial financial debts
from this adventure. We will live in Botbar and Suey’s trailer in the lot next door to
our house. The trailer only sleeps two people. Our dogs (Finn and Gus) will live in
our old pop-up with one of the kids. The other will live with Botbar and Suey’s
with our cat, Romie. Then, Elijah and Ari will switch back and forth between the
two places. Elijah’s plan is to return to Tech in early August and he won’t be home
to “live” with us anymore. Instead, he’ll stay at Tech for both of the following
summers to finish up his degree, so we’ll only see him for short breaks during
Christmastimes and Spring Breaks. By then, he’ll either go to graduate school at
U of M (or somewhere else) or move into the workforce directly. It’s his intention
to live somewhere out in Silicon Valley. So, chances are that the next 5 weeks
are all that we’ll have all together as a family. Uggg… it’s both super sad (for us)
and also exciting (for him). The letting go thing is the tough part.
After we had our walk, I sat on the deck and took care of publishing details and
preparing for my book launch. As I sat there working, three Tui’s sat in the tree
next to me singing their beautiful songs. The clever Tui can mimic sounds such as
the calls from other birds. They have very unique songs and calls, much like
parrots. To the Maori, Tui’s have a spiritual meaning. The Tui are associated with
life fulfilment, confidence and spiritual harmony. In Maori culture the Tui
has powerful significance. They act as messengers to the Gods in the heavens.
Tui’s are pretty boisterous and have a lot to say. They look black from a distance,
but in good light Tui’s have a blue, green and bronze iridescent sheen. They
have a very distinctive white throat tuft under their beaks that looks like a Maori
“Poi” (the balls that the women swing in rhythm). Tui’s are very vocal, with a
complicated mix of tuneful notes interspersed with coughs, grunts and wheezes.
In flight, their bodies slant with the head higher than the tail, and their noisy
whirring flight is interspersed with short glides. Jeff and I just love to listen to them.
Sometimes in the late afternoon or evening they make a grunting sound that is
similar to a monkey laughing. I will definitely miss their songs when we leave.
Later that night, I made a shrimp stir-fry and Jeff and I watched “Monty Python –
Life of Brian”. I’m not sure why… but Elijah and Ari don’t get Monty Python, so
we watch it on our own, and that’s okay too.

Images

