Wednesday – April 17th
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

“Aurora Australis” (The Southern Lights)

Maori – “Life in Light of Darkness”

We all got up and headed to the ferry so that we could work out at the gym in Paihia.
After we were done, Jeff and Ari went to check out the Hospice’s (resale stores).
Elijah and I went back to the “Waitangi Treaty Grounds” because we wanted to have
more time in the museum. It was great because we had about 3 hours to just wander
through the exhibits and learn more about NZ’s history and culture.
We learned that the name “Aotearoa” is Maori for NZ. It translates as "land of the
long white cloud”. The explorer, Abel Tasman renamed the land “Nova Zeelandia”
in Dutch “Zealand” is translated as “Sealand”.
I also found it interesting that the term “Maori” did not even exist until the Europeans
arrived. It means “ordinary” and the Maori used this term to distinguish themselves
from the fair-skinned settlers.
We took a deeper look at the “Te Reo” (the Māori language) is the official second
language of NZ. Even today, ALL students 3yr-16yr are taught “Te Reo”. The Maori
alphabet consists of only 15 letters (H, K, M, N, P, R, T, W). It only has 2 digraphs (NG,
WH ~ makes the “F” sound). It has all 5 vowels (A, E, I, O, U). The vowels can be long
or short. Contemporary conventions are that long vowels should be indicated by a
macron: ā, ē, ī, ō, ū. Historically, long vowels have not been marked, or have been
indicated by double vowels – aa, ee, ii, oo, uu. When we first arrived, it was difficult
to pronounce most words in Maori, but now were getting pretty good at it now.
The foundations for the traditional Māori world view are that they believe that the rising
of the sun in the east, the journey it makes across the sky, and its setting in the west is
the basis for the great mystery. They consider this the basic principle of life. The sun

represents the birth and growth of “Mana” (power) in the world. The birth, rise and
death for all existence is an expression of this pattern.
The Maori believe that as the Great Spirit rises to speak he/she/it reminds us that world
is constantly emerging from darkness into light and from light to darkness.

“Tihē mauriora
Ki te whaiao, ki Te Ao Mārama”
“The breath and energy of life
Is dawned in light, and rests in darkness”

The Great Spirit reminds us that Tāne (the first of humankind) separated earth and
sky, so that light would come into the world. His parents; Papatūānuku (the earth
mother) and Ranginui (the sky father), allowed the sun to shine into the world. The
Maori believe that this occurs when “Mana” (the spiritual force) enters every person
– just as the sun illuminates and brings forth each new day.

Papatūānuku & Ranginui
I find it so interesting that the “creation story” is so incredibly consistent symbolically
throughout the world. The similarities span between time and space regardless. Here
are these two little islands at the bottom of the earth almost replicating the same
beliefs as those at the top of the earth.

We have so enjoyed learning about cultural history of NZ. There is still so much to be
learned. We’ve truly only scratched the surface. Regardless, Elijah and I enjoyed our
second look at Waitangi.
After we returned back to the house I took a 9-mile walk by myself. It began with me
just going on a walk to “marinate” on what I had learned. Sometimes when I’m doing
research for a project I dive straight into the data, and then I need the time to just
think through everything before I can come up with a storyline, characters, and
setting. This part of the process is best done for me while walking. This was my original
intention, but as I was exploring, I came upon a Reserve known as “Kororareka”. After
walking for a long time, I finally reached a hidden cove. It was high tide, so I had to
climb down the rocky cliff and jump from rock to rock over the water to get to a big
boulder that was calling my name.
The sun was just beginning to set… Oh it was so beautiful! Bonus…it was the
“bewitching hour” even better! I sat there on that boulder for a while just staring at
the golden sparkles on the water. The sound of the waves lapping up along the rocky
edge and the chirps of two fantails fluttering around put me at great ease. The words
of a Maori Tribal Chief echoed through my head;

“Kua tawhiti kē to haerenga mai, kia kore e haere tonu.
He nui rawa o mahi, kia kore e mahi tonu."
Ta Himi Henare Ngati Hine

"You have come too far not to go further,
You have done too much not to do more"
Sacred elder-leader

That’s when I realized I had to leave before the sun had finished setting because the
hike back would be difficult in the dark. Parts of the hike were a bit muddy, narrow,
and steep so I didn’t want to get stuck in the middle of nowhere in the rainforest at
night. My cell phone battery was at 13% and I wouldn’t have a flashlight if it died, so
I hurried through the end of the hike as quick as I could.
Once I returned back at the house, Jeff had prepared a delicious Mexican Feast! I
was so hungry! It was awesome to come home to a hot-cooked- ready dinner!
We’ve been sharing in the preparation of dinner so it’s been a big treat. After we ate
we played cards (Crazy Eights and BS). I was pretty tired so I headed to bed early.
What a fulfilling day it had been!

Images
Waitangi Treaty Grounds with Elijah

Hike to “Kororareka Reserve”

