Thursday – April 18th
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

GOOD FRIDAY
Today, I took another 7-mile long hike around the back side of the range
in Russell to “Matauwhi Bay”.According to tribal traditions “Pewhairangi”
(The Bay of Islands) was one of the earliest sites of Maori settlement in all of
“Aotearoa” (New Zealand). The local peoples trace their origins from
Kupe, the Polynesian voyager credited with the first circumnavigation of
the North Island. The bay had been heavily settled by Maori for hundreds
of years before Europeans arrived. On sailing into the bay in 1769 Captain
Cook reported: “The Inhabitants of this bay (Matauwhi) are far more
numerous than at any place we have yet been in and seem to live in
friendship one with another”. As I reached “Matauhi” I realized that I’d
already walked about 5.5 miles. It’s so easy to get carried away with all of
the flora and fauna in the rainforest. It’s kind of like scuba diving to me…
Time just seems to stop. Even now, after 4 months of living here, there are
always so many new things to “take in” and learn about.
Before the time that Cook arrived (and the eventual European settlement)
Matauwhi Bay was the site of a Maori village and the “Pa” (fortified village)
of “Chief Pomare of the Nagti Manu Tribe” One of his sayings is; “In time,
the wind will blow away the gunpowder, the iron pots will break and the
red blankets will wear out, but the land will remain”. He was referring to the
many possessions of settlers that did not amount to much in comparison
to his ancestral lands which he called “The Real Treasure”. Again, I
couldn’t help but to make the comparison to famous Native American
“Chief Seattle”.

His native name was “Seathl”. The city in Washington state is named after
him. He is famous for having made a powerful speech that was about the
responsibility we have to the environment, and to have repect for the land
because it is all sacred. He earned the reputation of being both a warrior
and a leader because of the many defeating ambushes that he led. I
have always been drawn to his powerful intuition and poetic style. I’m
proud of my mere 3% of Native American Heritage. I know that sounds silly
because it’s hardly enough to count. Yet, it makes me humbled to know
that a very tiny portion of me has the honor of saying that I’m connected
to our native people. I know his speech like the back of my hand. I realize
it’s long, but it’s worth the reminder to hear it again and again in our
lifetime…
“Every part of the earth is sacred to my people. Every shining pine needle,
every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every meadow, every
humming insect. All are holy in the memory and experience of my people.
We know the sap which courses through the trees as we know the blood
that courses through our veins. We are part of the earth and it is part of us.
The perfumed flowers are our sisters. The bear, the deer, the great eagle,
these are our brothers. The rocky crests, the dew in the meadow, the body
heat of the pony, and man all belong to the same family. The shining
water that moves in the streams and rivers is not just water, but the blood
of our ancestors. If we give you our land, you must remember that it is
sacred. Each glossy reflection in the clear waters of the lakes tells of events
and memories in the life of my people. The water's murmur is the voice of
my father's father. The rivers are our brothers. They quench our thirst. They
carry our canoes and feed our children. So you must give the rivers the
kindness that you would give any brother. If we give you our land,
remember that the air is precious to us, that the air shares its spirit with all
the life that it supports. The wind that gave our grandfather his first breath
also received his last sigh. The wind also gives our children the spirit of life.
So if we give our land, you must keep it apart and sacred, as a place
where man can go to taste the wind that is sweetened by the meadow
flowers. Will you teach your children what we have taught our children?
That the earth is our mother? What befalls the earth befalls all the sons of
the earth. This we know: the earth does not belong to man; man belongs
to the earth. All things are connected like the blood that unites us all. Man
did not weave the web of life; he is merely a strand in it. Whatever we do

to the web, we do to ourselves. Our God is also your God. The earth is
precious to him and to harm the earth is to heap contempt on its creator.
Your destiny is a mystery to us. What will happen when the buffalo are all
slaughtered? The wild horses tamed? What will happen when the secret
corners of the forest are heavy with the scent of many men and the view
of the ripe hills is blotted with talking wires? Where will the thicket be?
Gone! Where will the eagle be? Gone! And what is to say goodbye to the
swift pony and then hunt? The end of living and the beginning of survival.
When the last red man has vanished with this wilderness, and his memory
is only the shadow of a cloud moving across the prairie, will these shores
and forests still be here? Will there be any of the spirit of my people left?
We love this earth as a newborn loves its mother's heartbeat. So, if we give
you our land, love it as we have loved it. Care for it, as we have cared for
it. Hold in your mind the memory of the land as it is when you receive it.
Preserve the land for all children, and love it, as our creator loves us. As we
are part of the land, you too are part of the land. This earth is precious to
us. Whether you know it now or not, It too is precious to you”.
As I made my way from Matauwhi Bay back to Russell, his words kept
rattling through my mind as I walked through this beautiful slice of heaven.
I left the “bush” and headed into town. I took particular note of it (now
filled with sailing race ships, a sailing club, and caters to high-end tourism).
I strolled up and down on the waterfront sidewalk lined with shops,
restaurants, and fancy cottages. The main pier is the access point for the
ferry (remember Russell is on an island). It was just becoming the
“bewitching hour” so I thought I’d have a seat on a nice swing hanging
from a giant Pohutukawa tree on the beach. There’s nothing that
compares to having a good swing. My 50-year-old self easily transforms to
my 10-year-old self. The setting sun was a great backdrop. As sunset
arrived, I went further down the wharf past the gulls who eyed people’s
food along the railings. This reminded me again of how hungry I was.
When I finally returned back at the house (after 7.2 miles) Ari had made
smashed cauliflower and Jeff made BBQ chicken. It was Good Friday so
Jeff and I wanted to go to a “Tenebrae Service” (The “Darkness” which
precedes Easter) but the 3 only churches on the island did not have one.
(I also didn’t fast this year from Maundy Thursday to Easter, so I felt a little

out of sorts). I decided I’d have to break tradition completely. Instead, we
played Euchre in which Elijah and I lost, and then played poker. I have to
say… it was still a wonderful day, sometimes breaking tradition is a good
thing. As I headed to bed, I thought about “The Darkness” that Jesus
chose to take so that we may “live in the light”. As I looked out the
window, I took this picture – Instead of darkness… it was a Full Moon!

Images

