**North Island – Russell**

We got up and took the ferry to Pahia to workout. After we were done we
decided (since we were back on the mainland) that we would go to “Kerikeri”,
(the largest town in Northland about 150 miles north of Auckland). Our plan
was to check out the village of Kerikeri after we hiked two different trails in the
“Puketi Kauri Forest”.

Our first hike was the “Manginangina Kauri Walk”. It was an easy, walk and
return about 1.6 km. The trail was originally created in the early 1970’s to gain
access for a potential mining project for magnesium. Fortunately, the area was
preserved, but the track remains. The boardwalk wound us through a mature
stand of Kauri Trees. Then, we entered a forest with thick vegetation.
Interpretive panels were all along the way to help us understand and enjoy this
special rainforest ecosystem.

Eventually, we arrived at a large viewing area (set in a Kauri grove) where
we sat in silence in awe of the towering trees all around us. My most vivid
memories of this adventure are when all four of us just stop and observe
nature. It’s a beautiful thing to have all of your senses engaged at the
same time. To just smell the ripening ferns and musty mosses, mushrooms,
and fragrant flowers. To caress the bark of the mighty giants (you can
almost feel their wisdom). Once silent for a while, the birds encircle us
closer and closer so that their songs of curiosity become louder and louder.
To see the 1,000 different shades of green in every direction. To look up
towards the canopy high above you… and still… you cannot see the top.
The illusion gives you the feeling that you are small as an ant. But, more
than anything it’s a spiritual awakening that reminds us that we are
“connected”. It provides us an opportunity to put everything back into
balance.

The ancient Kauri (2,000 to 4,000-year-old) are so precious that you feel as
if they’re magical. There is nothing quite like walking through a virgin rain
forest The Rewarewa flowers (below) attract even more birdlife and
butterflies which makes the scene come alive.

Next, we headed to the “Puketi Nature Trail” which is a 7.5 km trek. We
followed a ridgeline of the forest and descended down towards the lower
Waipapa river. We didn’t go all the way though because we still wanted
to go to Kerikeri and there wouldn’t have been enough sunlight. The 4.6
km’s did give us a glimpse of a portion of the 42,000-acre reserve.

This trail provided us with an opportunity to learn more about New
Zealand's native plants. Many of flora were labeled throughout the trek.
With over 361 indigenous species of plants, this forest is one of the most
diverse in all of NZ. The lower part of the track also had an impressive range
of mosses as well as a grove of mature Kauri trees too.

Long ago, Kauri trees were not only prized for their timber, but also their
gum. The gum was used in the production of paints and varnishes. The
process of “bleeding” the Kauri for their gum destroyed many of these
giants throughout the country. Fortunately, only a few Kauri in this reserve
were damaged.

The trek included nine “threatened” fauna species including the famous
Kiwi. The forests are also home to Long-Tailed Bats, the Pacific Gecko, and
the Weta. However, Hunters can request permits for hunting wild goats
and bore in season. If we would have gone here at night, we would have
treated to a luminescent display from glow-worms. It was getting late so
we moved on to Kerikeri.

Along the way, we stumbled upon “Haruru Falls” which is a small but wide
waterfall. Where the Waitangi River is at its strongest, feeding into a lagoon
that ebbs its way out to the “Bay of Islands” and the Waitangi Treaty
grounds. Once we arrived we followed a small track took us to the Falls.
Along the edge was a rope-swing installed on a tree hanging off the cliff
into the lagoon below. The water was very churned up but we could still see that there were rocks in the water below. I definitely wouldn’t take a
leap like that one. Haruru means "big noise" in Māori. During heavy rains,
the place quickly turns into a torrent of raging water. On sunnier days the
amount of water cascading down is still impressive.

We were perplexed by the large brood of wild roosters who spend their
lives in the Haruru Falls carpark. They're very friendly roosters in fact, a little
to friendly for Ari. She’s not keen on birds and bugs, so she moved pretty
fast to get around the boastful roosters to get back in the car as quick as
she could.

After visiting the falls, we carried on to Kerikeri. After everything that we
had already done, we really weren’t in the mood for anymore exploring.
We did however drive through town. It was a nice little place, but we were
ready to get back to Russell and have dinner. Today had been an exciting
day. Another perfect day in paradise!