Tuesday – April 2
North Island – Whitianga

This would be our last day in Whitianga. We headed to the gym early
because we knew that we wouldn’t be able to workout for a while. The
rain finally lifted, so we could enjoy a day of “Fun in the Sun”. We discussed
all of our options and decided that we wanted to spend our last day at
“Otama Beach”, or rather, “Our Eternal Beach of Bliss”. Ari hadn’t gone
with us last time, so we really wanted her to come with us to see this
amazing slice of heaven.
As we approached “Black Jack Road” it was just as steep, narrow and
winding as it was the first time. Parts of it are gravel so we proceeded with
great caution. Ari is not a beach person (yet?) but, even she would be
impressed.
We headed down the cliff towards quite certainly, the most unspoiled
Tropical Utopia in the world. The squeaky white sand, the multi-layered surf,
the incredible overhanging Pohutakawa trees clinging to clay cliffs all
make for an incredible playground of nature. The 2 km stretch of sand
absorbs the sunshine along with any worries. I could stay there forever. It’s
vast and secluded shoreline no doubt, make it the perfect paradise.
As we arrived and found a spot to make “Home Base” we were excited to
see that a class of high school kids were there getting their PADI
certification. What an “elective” that would be…Only in NZ!

We kept our eyes peeled, looking for dolphins and whales that are known
to frequent this beach. The water is so amazingly clear and the horizon is
speckled with Islands and Mountains.
Ari and I walked down to the rock cropping’s on the west side of the
beach. We explored the huge boulders on the shoreline, and took some
fun pictures.
Later, Jeff and Elijah and I walked to the far east side of the beach, which
also has many rock ledges and boulders. The waves were massive and
teasing us to jump in! We stopped to ride a few along the way.
While in route, we passed a pair of “Variable Oystercatchers”. They’re a
stocky-coastal all black sea bird with a long, bright orange bill. They are
found only in New Zealand. They’re often seen in pairs probing busily for
shellfish along beaches or in estuaries, or just laying in the sand. They used
to be eaten by the Maori. Eventually, the Variable Oystercatcher
population reached alarmingly low numbers. Therefore, they became
protected in 1922. Since then, the numbers have increased rapidly. They
are a long-living bird. Most live till 30+ years of age. This endears me to
them.
As we approached the end of the beach, there was a gentleman who
had no suit on. The last time we were here, there was another man skinny
dipping. We wondered if we had missed a sign somewhere. To each…
their own, we just carried on.
We couldn’t get past the boulders to the private spot we had found
before. This time the tide was too high. So, we turned around and headed
back to home base. Once we got back to Ari we ate oranges for a snack.
Nothing is better than being on an awesome beach and eating a sweet
juicy orange. When I was in college at USF (University of South Florida – GO
BULLS) oranges were always my standby because orange trees are
everywhere there. Plus, they quench your thirst at the same time. I think
I’ve finally converted my kids to this tradition. Afterwards, we realized that
we had all been the sun for too long, so we decided that we should pack
it up and say goodbye. I swallowed hard as we drove away… I sure hope
we have the chance (someday) to make it back to Otama Beach. I’ll
dream of it next winter, and maybe 10 more winters.

Once we returned back to the house we had a ton of cleaning and
packing to do. Over the course of the past 14 days – we sure let everything
get disorganized. We moved a ton of stuff around (out of necessity). It was
such a tight fit, in order to have enough space to walk we really needed
to do a bunch of strategic alterations. I literally had to look at the listing
pictures and try to re-stage it back to the way it supposed to be. In the
end, I think we did an excellent job! After growing up in a motel, and later
running it myself, I would never dream of leaving a place less than almost
perfect. Elijah and Ari see us as “Neurotic’…Jeff and I call it “Respectful”.
One day – they’ll get it.

Images
WE WERE BLESSED TO HAVE THIS UNFORGETTABLE DAY AS A FAMILY!!!

