Saturday – April 20th
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

Morning

Today was another incredible day! Since we would be leaving Russell
on Monday morning (and Sunday was Easter) today would be our
only chance to make it to the “tip-top” of the North Island. When we
were in the South Island, we went to “Slope Point” (the bottom of the
South Island) so we really wanted to make it to the top to see Cape
Reinga, the 90-mile beach, and the Te Paki Giant Dunes.
Our destination was about a four-hour drive from The Bay of
Islands. Cape Reinga really is literally in the middle of nowhere (the
nearest small town is 100 km south). We drove for many hours through
rolling green hills and pastures dotted with sheep – until we reached
the end of the road. Eventually, we found ourselves perched on a
rocky vantage point, surrounded by vast blue ocean on all sides.
On this Northernmost tip of the Aupouri Peninsula, Cape Reinga
(Te Rerenga Wairua) is “THE” most spiritually significant place in all of
New Zealand. From first look, we saw a peninsula, a tree, and a
lighthouse.
So, what makes this place so special? It’s the top of the world in NZ.
Here, it’s lashed by winds, pounded by surf and sand, and soothed by

brightly sunlit days. This northern tip has a wild and unpredictable
nature. We arrived on an extraordinarily busy day (Guessing a least
1,000 people…crazy busy). As we entered the paved walk, we were
reminded to be respectful by not eating or drinking anything. We
were also asked to keep a low voice and show respect for the Maori
culture, customs, and faith. I was so thankful for the wind because it
was really congested from sooooo many people. So at least we had
a fresh breeze to keep all the sweaty bodies from being too
overwhelmingly stinky.
The trail was lined with many informational signs describing and
explaining the Maori traditions. Interest here has always has been
focused on a lonely Pohutukawa tree (called the “Spirit Tree”) which
grows out of the eastern side of this rocky point.
According to ancient lore, this is the final departure point for the spirit
of all Maori. It was said that all spirits travel up the west coast of the
cape, and continue up over the western end of “Spirits Bay”.
Eventually the spirit reaches this sacred tree, named “Te Aroha”.
There, the spirit descends down through the Pohutukawa’s roots and
then enters the sea. (Carbon dating proves its been growing here for
more than 800-900 years. Ironically, that is the same time that the
Maori arrived here. Before that time, there is no record of any human
here in NZ. The most interesting thing is… that it is reputed that the
“Spirit Tree” has never blossomed). Once the spirit enters the sea it
travels underwater to the “Three Kings Islands”. There, it climbs up to
“Ohaua”, (the highest point of the islands) and bids its last farewell
look to the “land of the living”. Finally, it travels down to the deepest
depths of the ocean and continues its journey to the after world. “Te
Reinga” means “the leaping place of spirits”.
We could see “Three Kings Island” (which has always remained
uninhabited) is made up of one large island and 13 smaller islands 34
miles northwest of the lighthouse. It is called “Manawatawhi” by the
Maori. It gets its English name from explorer Abel Tasman who
anchored here in 1643 searching for fresh water. Interestingly, it was

the “Twelfth Night” of Epiphany, so it was named after the biblical
three kings.
We walked first to the overlook, and then to the lighthouse. It was
beyond words stunning! We could “feel” the holiness of this sacred
place. The dangerously steep and sheer cliff (that had no roped off
area) gave us a sense of peace to gaze upon the sweeping currents
of the Tasman Sea and the Pacific Ocean. The four of us sat in the
grass right on the edge and had another silent moment of gratitude
and awe. As the two opposing waters meet right off the end of the
point they form peaked swells of gigantic broken waves. For Māori,
these turbulent waters are considered the male sea (Te Moana
Tāpokopoko a Tāwhaki) and the female sea (Te Tai o Whitireia). The
whirlpools where the currents clash are like those that dance in the
wake of love. They represent the coming together of male and
female - and the creation of life.
A nearby spring in the hillside, Te Waiora-a-Tāne (the “Living Waters of
Tāne”), is a ceremonial place for Maori.
Remember I mentioned before… in Māori mythology, and the son of
Ranginui and Papatūanuku, the sky father and the earth mother?
Tāne, is also the god of forests and of birds. It is he who enables the
wind to carry seeds that give birth to the trees. Tāne is also the force
that gives the trees the ability to sway in the wind without breaking.
This spring provides the “holy water” for important ceremonies. The
natural waters from this spring are also said to give spiritual cleansing
to all spirits. Here, they believe that the moon “bathes” in the
sprinkling waters, and gives new life to spirits after death. In this way,
each lunar month it, death is restored back to life.
We were so thankful that we made it a priority to see this because it
filled us with a sense of wonder, beauty, and enlightenment. It not
only gave us the opportunity to better understand the Maori way, but
we couldn’t have walked away without being profoundly touched by
the power of this holy place.

Images

“Te Aroha” - the sacred tree

“Manawatawhi” - the Three Kings Islands

The male sea (Te Moana Tāpokopoko a Tāwhaki)
and the female sea (Te Tai o Whitireia)

PLEASE REFER TO 4-20-19 AFTERNOON ON THE NEXT LINK

Saturday – April 20th
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

Afternoon

Today’s grand adventure continued forth. We headed south for
about 17 km to the end of “The Te Paki Stream”. We traveled on
a gravel road to eventually reach the majestic “Te Paki Giant
Dunes”. It felt very much like a vast desert that eventually runs into
the great wilderness called “Kokota”. It rests on the “bull-nosed”
southern head of “Parengarenga Harbor”. The “Far North” is a region
built on sand. It lies exposed to the powerful winds that enable the
dunes to constantly be shifting. It’s crazy to think “Te Paki” was once
its own island separated from mainland New Zealand. Over time, the
dunes created a large “tombolo” or narrow mass reconnecting the
land. Then, after a few more million years of sand buildup from
volcanoes, the south merged with the island and created this point. It
looks like a “waterless sea” of sand that is almost alive because its
ever-changing and continually evolving.
I’m guessing there were probably about 600 people there when we
arrived. Here, the number of people really didn’t matter because the
dunes are so gigantic that all of the people just look like ants. These
sand dunes put Sleeping Bear to shame. They are huge!
(between 500-1,200 feet tall in various locations. They stretch for

6 miles long. They’re about a mile across and connect to 90mile beach.
The “Te Paki Dunes” were a remarkable sight to take in while we stood
at the foot of them. Fortunately, the same cool breeze would be our
friend here too. We were feeling very lucky because the sand was
not too hot on our feet. As we began our ascent, we felt like we
had been transported to the surface of another planet.
Instantly, the song “A Horse with No Name” circled over and
over in my head. The rhythm was caught in each step I took.
Although there we a ton of people here, it didn’t matter because the
dunes were so vast that the closest person was actually quite a large
distance away.
As we approached the top, it was the coolest thing! There was
a high school rugby team all in formation doing the “Haka”. We
were very impressed at how synchronized they were for a HS
Rugby team. Each step we took up, we slid back down at least
a half of step. Whew! It was a ton of work to get all the way up.
By the time we got up, the rugby team had all; rolled, tumbled,
and ran down the steep edge. We could tell many of the boys
were trying ti impress Ari! LOL!
Next, we continued on to an area they nicknamed the “Devils
Hook”. Apparently, the slope exceeds a 45-degree angle. There,
we found a crowd of people “Sand Boarding” down the slope. I
later heard that they can reach speeds between 30-40 km per hour!
They used a specific board that looked more like a sled than boogie
boards (except they have very smooth-almost shiny bottoms). They
rode down on their belly and held the board at the top. “Dune
Surfing” (slang) is a fast and furious sport because each run lasts for
such a long time, but it looked pretty dangerous for the people who
ran into other people. We decided we weren’t interested in “giving it
a go” because we watched the majority of the people spitting

mouthfuls of sand like they were Daffy Duck, and blinking away tears.
Although it might have been a blast, a helmet and goggles might
have been a better choice.
Once we got to the top there were amazing panoramic views. We
walked along the ridgeline as close as we could to the cliff
overlooking the ocean. Down below was the “90-mile beach. This
beach stretches from just west of “Kaitaia” all the way up to
Cape Reinga. It’s a long ribbon of sand that stretches down the
“Aupouri Peninsula”. It’s best known for spectacular sunsets and
for having one of the best left-hand surf breaks in the world. The
beach is officially a highway, so people drive on it. However,
it’s only suitable for four-wheel drive vehicles. Many people rent
4-wheelers to explore the vast coastline. We could see from our
vantage point that people were racing and taking jumps on the
smaller dunes that led to the shore down there. From where we
stood it would have taken about another 2-3 hours to get down
there and back so we decided not to venture any further. We
still had to retrace our steps from there, and then drive four hours
back (which already put us in the dark for most of the return).
Instead, we took pictures and soaked in all that we could before we
had to leave. As we made our way back to the bottom we crossed
The “Te Paki Stream”. It is home to many native birds, lizards and fish
along with loads of native trees. The area surrounding the stream itself
is protected by the Department of Conservation. Gobs of people
were wading in the stream trying to clean the sand out of… lord knows
where.
Since there were soooo many people, the parking lot was a cluster to
get out of. But, with patience, we eventually did so and made our
way back to Russell. This had been another incredible day on our
adventure! I just don’t know how it could get any better?

Images

