**North Island – Russell**

We were eager to return to the same church as we went to on
Palm Sunday. “Te Whare Karakia o Kororareka” (Christ’s Church in
Russell). The first church in NZ, and also NZ’s oldest building that is
still used for its original purpose. Jeff and I were eager to share this
service with Elijah and Ari. We were greeted again at the door in
Maori “Haere mai, haere mai, haere mai” (a warm welcome).
The service was led by a man named Chris Swannell. Since 1998,
local people have taken over the role of leadership in worship
rather than having a visiting priest. They have formed a “Local
Shared Ministry Team” that encourages diversity and
celebrates taonga, (the treasures of the heart) for the Russell
community.

Chris, is the first openly gay man accepted by the Anglican
deacon in Northland. His sexuality is not an issue for Christ Church
leaders. "What Chris and Michael do in their private lives does not
concern us," church administrator Roger Wyatt said. "We are
interested only in his spirituality. He has earned our trust and
respect with his dedication over many, many years ... He is one of
the pillars of our church." Right now, this is a huge topic of concern
for many churches, including our own. It is refreshing to see this
dedicated awareness of equality with faith. I hope that with time,
this will no longer be an issue. Love one another… end of story!
First we had the call to worship

Then we shared the peace of Christ Chris’ message was to find renewal and hope amidst tragedy of
despair (referring to the shootings in Christchurch… again they are
a nation still in shock). But rather to find compassion for one another in this world that still has those who see through the eyes
of hate.

Next, we had communion which was a different experience for
Elijah and Ari because we walked to the alter, then kneeled, then
we had a wafer for the body, then the blood was a merlot out of
a big silver chalice. Once Chris had served all of us, he chugged
the rest of the glass. The kids thought that was hilarious!
After the service we headed to the courtyard /cemetery to take
a few photos. Then, we headed to “Long Beach” for our last soak
in the sun. I can officially say, we were breaking tradition… how
many Easters can we say we’ve spent at the beach? Ari stayed
home to practice her saxophone. The tide was low so we were
eager to take a walk to discover something new. While Jeff stayed
at ‘Home-base”, Elijah and I headed to the far end of the beach.
We were curious what was over the other side of the hill. We were
barefoot and had only our swim suits on, but he scurried up to the
top to take a look. It was another secret harbor. How cool! So
much of NZ has little hidden gems! That’s one thing that we just
love about Elijah… he pushes us all to explore, experience, and
examine.

When we returned home, Ari and I headed out to take two
separate hikes. I wanted to show her my “secret trails” before we
left tomorrow. We had so much fun! One thing that we love about
Ari is that she is always “present” in everything she does. We had
so much fun exploring the little estuary pools to look for critters. She
so easily gets lost in the moment that she forgets about everything
else. I tend to be that way too, so when we’re together and in to
something and we don’t have to feel rushed, it’s awesome!
I always find it fascinating how “little” things in nature can be seen
consistently. For example, when we reached the end of the
trailhead for the second hike, the same Kingfisher (bird) was
perched on the same power line as the last time I was there. He
just sat there almost waiting for us to arrive. He once again told his
story, then flew off as he did before. I just love that! I’ve found if
I’m observant enough, nature pretty much reveals its continual
patterns.

We decided that we wanted to have an early supper for Easter,
this way we’d have time to do some pre-packing for our move
ahead of time. Since we were breaking tradition, Jeff grilled some
amazing steaks and Ari and I made a delicious salad. We said our
thanks of gratitude and enjoyed some festive champagne.
Once we got things fairly organized for our departure tomorrow,
we watched Thor 2 and had popcorn. We finished off the night
with Easter Bunny chocolate. Even though our kids are old… I still
set chocolate bunnies outside their door last night (plus… I like to
eat them too).