Monday – April 22nd
North Island – Rotorua

Today we left “The Bay of Islands” and went to “The Bay of Plenty”.
Rotorua is a moderate sized city that is considered “The Heart of
the Nation”. It is situated on the southern shores of Lake Rotorua.
The tourism industry is by far the largest source of income in this
area. It is known for its geothermal activity, geysers and bubbling
mud pools. It has an estimated permanent population of 72,500.
Roughly half of all citizens here in Rotorua are of Maori descent
(more than anywhere in NZ). It’s also home to a “Living” Maori
village and New Zealand Maori Arts and Institute. The institute
offers traditional wood carving and a weaving school.
The name Rotorua comes from Māori, the full name for the city
and lake is Te Rotorua-nui-a-Kahumatamomoe. “Roto” (lake)
and “Rua” (two) Rotorua is referred to as the “Second Lake”
because when the Maori first arrived here, this was the second lake
that they discovered.
According to Maori elders the first
Polynesian explorer to reach New Zealand was “Kupe”, who
traveled throughout the Pacific. The Maori migrated deliberately
to NZ at different times, in different canoes, first arriving to
NZ roughly 800-900 years ago.
A common nickname for Rotorua is "Sulphur City" due to the
hydrogen sulfite emissions from the many bubbling suphur pools

which exist throughout the city. The smell is similar to "rotten eggs”,
and I have to say, after a while we got used to it.
The lakeshore was a prominent site of skirmishes during the New
Zealand Wars of the 1860s. A "special town district" was created in
the 1883, to promote Rotorua's potential as a spa destination.
Thermal activity is the focus of much of Rotorua's tourist
appeal. Geysers and bubbling mud pools, hot thermal springs
and Te Wairoa ("The Buried Village") — so named after it was
buried by the 1886 Mount Tarawera eruption. In Kuirau Park, to the
west end of Rotorua, hot bubbling mud pools dot the park. Visitors
can soak their feet in hot pools.
The house https://www.vrbo.com/20042086ha?unitld=5634299 is
in the suburb of “Tihiotonga” (the highest residential area in
Rotorua). The house (referred to as “Top Deck”) faces north and
gets the morning sun. It offers a commanding view over the Lake
Rotorua and the downtown area. The second deck in back
provides a view of rolling hillsides filled with grazing sheep.
We arrived around 6:00 pm, we had traveled through some pretty
nasty storms (that were nasty with fog in the mountains) so we
hoped that it would clear up soon. We unloaded the “Low-rider”
and then went to “New World” to get groceries. By the time we
returned, we had a quick dinner of “every man for yourself” and
then watched an episode of “Bob Ross and the Joy of Painting”.
We headed to bed super early because Jeff and Elijah were going
to get up at 3:00 am to go back to Auckland to pick up Jeff’s
parents (Botbar and Suey) at the airport. We worried that the
storm and fog would make it a challenge in the dark, so we went
to bed hoping for the best. They’ll be joining us for 16 days (8 in in

Rotorua and 8 in Mahurangi Bay). We were so excited to share this
experience with them too!

Images

