Tuesday – April 23
North Island – Rotorua

Jeff and Elijah left on time to go to the airport (4-hour drive). They wokeup at 3:00 am… So did I because I couldn’t get back to sleep. We all
would be heading to bed early tonight. They said the road through
the mountains was very foggy, light rain, but not terrifying so we all
were thankful for that. By the time they got to Auckland and retraced
their steps to the pass, the fog had lifted, so it was just a light rain.
Whew!
Bob and Sue got to the house around 9:00 am. After a 12-hour flight
they were doing really well. They had taken a separate flight to LA the
day before to help break up the trip. Ari and I made breakfast
(scrambled eggs, ham, and toast). Fortunately, all of their luggage
made it with them. Ari and Elijah were so excited because Suey
brought them 7 boxes Mac and Cheese (something that they haven’t
been able to find a replacement for here). She said it was kind of silly
at customs for her to declare Mac and Cheese, but it did give her a
chuckle. She also brought me 2 boxes of tea (Earl Grey and English
Breakfast). About 2 years ago I gave up coffee. The NZ equivalent
doesn’t even come close. So, I was just as thrilled as the kids were.
Later, Jeff and Bob took a nap, while Suey and the kids and I took a
walk to Tihiotonga Centennial Park. I’ll explain more about this in a later
post. There’s too much for me to tell you about today. I returned to
Tihiotonga Centennial Park many times in the next 8 days, so I’ll share
that with you another time. Once we returned to the house, Jeff and
Bob were awake, so we all headed downtown to check it out.
First, we went to the south-eastern corner of Lake Rotorua called “Sulfur
Bay”. There, we did a walking tour with boardwalks that took us

through a Wildlife Refuge and Sanctuary. The “Purenga Stream” flows
into the Bay which has plenty of geothermal features including boiling
mud pools and a hot water steam. The Refuge occupies a portion of
the bay and is home to an array of bird species including the nationally
threatened “New Zealand dabchick”, “Banded Dotterel” and the
“Black-billed Gull”. The water in the bay appeared to be very murky
due to sulfur suspensions in it. It’s extremely low in oxygen and is very
acidic. These birds are attracted to it because it is warm, as a result
many of them have difficulty walking or paddling because the webs
of their feet eaten away by the high concentrations of acidic waters.
Next, we walked through the “Government Gardens”. Originally
known as “Paepaekumanu”. It’s a large public park laid out as
multiple gardens in the heart of downtown. We walked through the
rose garden, but since it’s fall the roses were barely hanging on. We
found a few that still had beautiful blooms and fragrances. It seems
like every moderate to larger city that we have been to has a rose
garden. I just love them! My mother, Carolann, used to love yellow
roses (I love white) so being in a rose garden always reminds me of the
good memories of her.
Our next stop on our walking tour took us to “The Whakamaharatanga
Hoia O Te Arawa Memorial”. This memorial, commemorates those who
fought and died in the First World War. The Duke of York (later King
George VI) unveiled the memorial in 1927. The elaborately designed
gothic-style memorial is made from Gritstone, Belgian marble, and
black granite. It’s so interesting to see the Maori / British flare as they
merge these two cultures into Kiwi. Especially in the arts.
Finally, we walked past “The Bath House”, which today houses the
“Rotorua Museum”. The magnificent Elizabethan-style Bath House was
built out of half-timbered construction. It’s complete with a plethora
of frilly gables, numerous towers, and a grand staircase. It was
originally used as a luxurious treatment facility. It was built to tempt
wealthy northern hemisphere patrons to travel far from home to the
‘Great South Seas Spa. Water from nearby thermal springs was piped
to private bathrooms. They also had numerous hydro-massage rooms,

where patrons were massaged with water to improve circulation.
There were also a number of deep pools where chronic disorders were
treated. The north wing accommodated male patients, while women
were treated in the south wing. At its height the spa gave 60,000 to
80,000 baths annually and about 30,000 special treatments. An
earthquake in 2016 caused significant damage to the central part of
the Bath House. This is what brought the Brits to Rotorua. The
architecture looked a lot to me like that of Shakespeare’s home.
After our walking tour, we went to the store to pick up more groceries.
When we got back we had appetizers and champagne on the deck,
to celebrate Bob and Sue’s arrival.
Later that night, I made Chicken Stir-fry, and then we watched “The
Avengers Infinity War” to prepare us for the “End Game” premier
tomorrow afternoon.

Images

