Wednesday – April 24th
North Island – Rotorua

We got up and I made a ham and vegtable soufflé. After breakfast, we headed to
the gym to workout. Botbar and Suey joined us. Once we were done we split into
groups and walked around town. Jeff and I took Suey to the Hospice shop to see if
we could find something fun. Jeff found me a sweet green leather jacket! It fit like
a glove…almost like it was especially tailored for me. It was only 18 NZ $. We got
Botbar some new gym shoes. Suey found a knitted sweater, and Jeff found a new tshirt.
When we came home, I took a long walk through Tihiotonga Centennial Park. Okay…
so now I’ll update you about this magical place. Centennial Park (formerly known as
the Rotorua Tree Trust) is situated on the slopes of Tihiotonga at the southern side of
the Rotorua (about a mile from our house). The area consists of 50 acres of “rustic”
rolling land with some quite steep gullies. It’s divided into 8 quadrants (each having
their own theme) that contain different varieties of trees.
The idea behind the development was to provide an area of land for people to
dedicate trees in the memory of family members or friends. As I explored each
quadrant, I was so excited to see my whole cemetery vision in real life. Kids were
busy exploring, old people on benches, dogs running free…it was all there!
It is unusual to have such a large area for a vision like this. I was thrilled to know that
this been created by visionaries over a century ago. I think if I ever won the Lotto, I’d
buy up a huge piece of land and do this. What a beautiful way to honor the
departed and still allow the living a wonderful place to go.
This reserve was established as a rural sight (which will not remain pruned, but rather
it will be grazed by wandering sheep). Ultimately, the tree growth with more time will
naturally become a woodland paradise. My favorite quadrants are the “Maple
Grove” and the “Peace Memorial”.

Throughout the park there are numerous benches in memory of people, 2 small
bridges, ponds, water features, a BBQ area, picnic tables, and awesome “electronic
restrooms”. The restrooms are made of metal that have a button to open the door it
automatically opens, once inside you push another button to lock it and the door
shuts. Once inside an electronic voice comes on to say “You have 10 minutes” just
after that music comes on. This time it sang “Singing in the Rain”. They had the same
type of electronic restrooms in Picton when we were with George and Cheryl. It just
cracks me up!
After returning home I needed to get ready quick for the event we’ve been waiting
years on. Our reserved tickets for the “End Game” were for 3:00. We were so excited
we couldn’t stand ourselves. Beginning in 2008 with Iron Man, it is the highest-grossing
film franchise of all time. They have grossed over 20 billion dollars at the box office.
There have been a total of 22 separate super hero films that all tie into each other.
As a family, we have seen them all so many times I couldn’t even guess. Today’s film
“End Game” is the last one. We’re all so sad to get to the end of “Marvel Mania”. For
over 10 years, we (as a family) have thoroughly enjoyed the riveting plot lines, the
development of each character, and watched them go though each trial and
tribulation. We know that all good things come to an end… We keep running through
the possibilities of finding a loop hole that will allow it to keep going. Unfortunately, I
write this entry after already watching it. I don’t want to be a “spoiler” in case you
haven’t seen it yet, but let’s just say I cried my freakin’ eyes out…
After getting back home Jeff made chicken fajitas. Later on Suey and I did
watercolor painting. By bedtime, we decided we had to go back to see End Game
again, just to clear up any incongruences that had possibly emerged. I know it seems
kind of silly from the outside, but I can’t tell you how many family debates we’ve had
over the past 10+ years about Marvel. It was one of the tiny things that has brought
us together to laugh and cry, to be surprised and disappointed, and to “philosophize”
over.

Images

