Thursday – April 25th
North Island – Rotorua

We got up and Jeff made soft boiled eggs for breakfast. When I lived
in England, I used to have 2 every morning before teaching. I don’t
know how long it’s been since I’ve had them… but, it sure was a nice
change. We all spent the morning taking care of “Back Home
Responsibilities”.
In the afternoon, took a long walk back to Tihiotonga Centennial
Park. This time, I got a bit turned around in quadrant 5 and 6. It was
almost like a big labyrinth. I headed back to the Peace Garden.
There was a monument that really spoke to me… It said
“WE ALL HAVE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF WORLD PEACE”

Sure, it’s simple, but what if everyone truly felt that way? How
different would life here on earth be? What if everyone could look
beyond themselves enough to see that we’re all connected? What
if everyone saw this statement as truth? Then we would all be far
more focused on helping one another. We’re supposed to be both
servants to others, as well as striving to seek our own individual path.
Although I’m only 50 years old, I’ve spent the majority of my days
either being with children or being one myself. I find it interesting…
that when we start off this life… we truly believe that World Peace is
probable. Time and time again, kids are convinced that it can not

only happen, but they believe it can be sustained. Yet, as we get
older we grow to be more and more skeptical, more and more
willing overlook the right thing in the name of success or power
because it didn’t directly effect someone. Yet, I’ve witnessed
children all over the world at all ages who can easily sacrifice what
they need or want in the name of people they’ve never met before.
The evidence is clear… children are our greatest hope for world
peace.
When I got back from my long walk, we got dressed up and went
into town to check out the “Night Market”. It occurs every Thursday
night. On our way there, we stopped at “Kuirau Park” to take a walk
around and check it out. The Night Market didn’t start until 5:00 so
we had some time to explore yet.
Kuirau Park is an outdoor park with walking trails, various sculptures,
and an abundance of geothermal activity. The numerous walkways
wind their way through mud pools, boiling lakes and other natural
wonders. We were there around 4:00 so the sun was at my favorite
“Bewitching hour”. Since it’s autumn, the sun is setting around 5:30
now. Below is a picture I took of a trees shadow on another tree.
This is the best time of the day to get fantastic photos. I love a good
shot! My grandfather was a self professed photographer (he was
really an engineer at Ford, but he loved three things; his wife Irene,
the ocean, and the art of photography).
In early Maori times the small lake in the park was much cooler and
was known as Taokahu. Legend tells us that a beautiful young
woman named Kuiarau was bathing in the waters when a Taniwha
(legendary creature) dragged her to his lair below the lake. The gods
above were angered and made the lake boil so the Taniwha would
be destroyed forever. From that time on, the bubbling lake and the
steaming land around it have been known by the name of the lost
woman, although the spelling has changed a little.

As we made our way around the park, there were numerous
sculptures. I just love how the Kiwi’s appreciate art! also numerous
“Foot Pools” jam-packed with tourists with their shoes off to soak
them in the hot spring water. Maybe it sounds prissy of me… but, I
wasn’t interested in sharing even my foot water with others who
could have a weird fungus or something.
Next, we walked to the “Night Market”. The street was closed off so
that the food carts could be along the side of the road and the
crowd could be in the middle as well as tables and chairs for eating.
There, was also a plethora of different types of local produce and
handmade crafts. They also had live music playing on both ends of
the market. They had Croatian, Indian, Swiss, French, Italian, Asian,
and American themed foods. We were so excited to find a food
truck from Switzerland selling Raclette, OUR FAVORITE!!! We fell in
love with it when we lived in Switzerland over 20 years ago. It’s a
semi-hard cheese from Alpine cows. Once it is heated, you scrape
off the melted bit and eat it with red potatoes, pickled onions,
peppercorns, and sweet gherkins. We were in heaven! Next, Elijah
and Ari got French Crepes… yummy! Then, Jeff and Ari got stuck in
a 45-minute line to get a cup of “Bubble Tea”. It’s also known as
Pearl Milk of Boba. It is all the craze… It’s very expensive and takes
a long time to make because it’s all about the show. It originated
from Taiwan sometime in the 1980’s. It’s usually made with green tea
but can be flavored with any jelly or chocolate. It tastes great, but
the texture is really creepy (think large balls of tapioca… too big to
swallow so you have to chew them. Ick! We all tasted it and agreed
the flavor was awesome, but we couldn’t get past the texture.
Once we got back to the house we sat out on the porch to stargaze. It was a bit chilly so we had decaf coffee with Baily’s Irish
Crème. It was, as always, delicious! We showed Botbar and Suey
the Southern Cross and used Elijah’s star navigator app to see where
the constellations were.

We topped off the night with talking to Botbar about his childhood
and old family memories. It was nice to enjoy such a meaningful
conversation.

Images

Taniwha

