**North Island – Rotorua**

We woke up, had breakfast, and headed off to the gym to workout. After
that, we raced home to drop Botbar and Suey off. Jeff, and the kids and
I, hurried to go back to the movie theatre to watch “End Game” again.
We needed to clear up many of our uncertainties about the plot. It also
gave us more fodder for the possibilities of a possible sequel. Okay, Okay…
as far as we can see there are a few loop holes, but we’ll remain curious
to see if they come to fruition.

Once we got home Suey and I went on a walk through the Tihiotonga
Centennial Park. I took her to the Maple Grove quadrant. Since it’s
autumn the maples were in full glory. This grove is a 3-tiered quadrant with
trees on each level. We started on the top tier, but somehow got turned
around and ended up outside of the park. Once we got back in, we went
back to the Maple Grove again and finished the loop. We sat on a bench
and enjoyed the afternoon sunlight falling upon all of the brightly colored
leaves.

We kind of got lost in time. We needed to hurry and get ready for our big
night out. So, we rushed home to pull ourselves together. Tonight we
would be going to a cultural performance and take part in a traditional
Maori “Hangi” (feast) at the “Tamaki Maori Village”. This is a REAL working
village located on sacred “Marae” (Maori property) for an immersive
evening of culture.

This was as authentic as you get! Once we were seated at our table, we
ordered a bottle of wine for the 4 of us to share. The evening began with
a welcome ceremony by New Zealand's indigenous people. We were
escorted to an actual river that runs through the property. Next, we could
hear the eerie cries of men chanting the “Powhiri” (welcome) as they
paddled in traditional dress arriving in an ancient canoe. Many of these
men are the proud descendants of New Zealand’s most notable warriors.
They got out of the canoe with fire torch in hand. It was very dramatic –
but super cool!

Before we ate they escorted us to where the “Hangi” (feast) was being
prepared. They had dug a deep pit into the ground. The food was being
slow-cooked over the flames of fire. Lamb and chicken as well as roasted
vegetables including “Kumara” (sweet potatoes) were exposed to the
earthen ovens.

Next, they took us to the a large partially outdoor “Wharenui” (meeting
house), They had 3 more crackling open fires, there were 3 traditionally
constructed “Whares” (houses). We were captivated by the scenery of
totems and artifacts that were all typical during the pre-European time.
Once everyone was seated the men began with the traditional “Haka”
dance. It’s an ancient Māori dance that is used when going into war. It’s
an intense show of strength and unity. Each tribe has its own version and
choreography which includes screaming, sticking out their tongues,
rhythmic body slapping, and foot-stamping, all in rhythm with an angry
loud chant.

After that, the ladies performed “Poi twirling. They look like two white balls
on a string that are spun in circles while a drum is played and they sing.
This is done in sync with the other ladies. Sometimes they would throw it
while it’s twirling to one another then they’d catch it and pass it on to the
next lady.

Then, the male performed weaponry routines. The “Rakau” (weapons)
were used in hand-to-hand combat. The “Toa” (warriors) used long and
short handled weapons and spears.

To end the performance part of the evening, they sang Maori folksongs,
and played traditional instruments. It was fun to compare and contrast this
performance as opposed to the performance we saw at the Waitangi
Treaty Grounds.

When it ended, we returned to the dining hall for the “Hangi” (feast). The
food was good, but the lamb was excellent. What an exciting night it was!