**North Island – Rotorua**

We got up and I made fried eggs and toast for breakfast. Today we
would be visiting the world-famous “Waitomo Caves”. They’re about
a 2.5 -hour drive from where we are, so Botbar and Suey would have
another opportunity to see the NZ countryside.

Under the green hills of the village of Waitomo lies a labyrinth of hidden
caves, sinkholes and underground rivers. The area's name comes from
the Maori words “wai” (water) and “tomo” (hole).
The Waitomo Caves were discovered in the late 1800s by a local Māori
chief Tane Tinorau, who owned the land on which the caves were
located. Tinorau and his surveyor friend, Fred Mace explored the caves
together in 1887, floating in on a raft of flax flower stalks. Tinorau later
found an entrance to the caves on land, which is the same entry point
used today.

The caves were opened to tourists in 1889, with local Māori acting as
guides. Many of the staff working here at the caves today are direct
descendants of Chief Tane Tinorau and his wife Huti, as the cave and
its lands were returned to his family in 1989, following a period of
government administration.

The nearby “Ruakuri Cave” is Waitomo’s longest underground cave in
the Southern Hemisphere. Ruakuri is famed for its spiritual links to Māori
and its incredible limestone formations and spectacular caverns.
Once we arrived, we proceeded in line for our 60-minute guided tour.
First, we would take a walking tour through the caves, and then we
would go by boat and float around in the dark caverns (hopefully to
be mesmerized by the magical glowworms around us).
First, we explored the massive underground cave complex on foot.
Once below, we stood in the center of the famous “Underground
Cathedral Cave”. We learned the geology of the caves. The dramatic
limestone formations, gigantic stalactites and stalagmites, were all
incredibly impressive natural wonders.

The network of underground caverns along with the subterranean river
are considered some of the best examples in the world. As we
boarded the boat in the complete darkness, we were asked to be
completely still and silent. It really allowed us the opportunity to soak
in all of our surroundings. The heavy smell of minerals, the cold - damp,
sometimes dripping sounds, the faintest of echoes, all added to the
experience. Then, the boat moved by way of the captain pulling
ropes over our heads to steer. We entered the deepest part of the
cave system where these glittering little creatures provided a magical
backdrop of beauty. We marveled at the virtual “constellations” of
glowworms above our heads in a cavern they call the “Glowworm
Grotto”.

We learned the science behind these mysterious glowing little
creatures, known as “Arachnocampa luminosa”. Glowworms” are not
worms at all. They are the larvae of fungus gnats: small, delicate flies
that feed on fungi. They’re remarkably similar to fireflies (their more
famous bioluminescent cousins). These “creatures of light”- emit a bright
glow to help catch prey, avoid predators, and even to find a mate. As
soon as the larvae hatch they start to spin sticky web strings that are
straight from the cave ceiling. The glowworms drop globules of sticky
mucus along the web fibers which makes them look like glass bead
necklaces hanging like fishing lines from the ceiling. They then hang
from the silky threads and sit and wait. An orb-like gland in their tails
produces the ghostly blue light. The other insects that live in the pitch
black of the cave cannot see the glowworm's sticky trap – but they can
see the blue light. Attracted like moths to a flame, they fly upwards –
only to be ensnared. All that is then left for the hungry gnat to do is reel
in the line and devour its prey alive. They are far from alone in
generating light this way. Bioluminescence species have evolved in at
least 50 other living things. A few other examples are jellyfish,
dragonfish, anglerfish, squid, octopus, and lantern fish.

After we finished the tour, Jeff and the kids, and I took a hike on the
“Waitomo Look-out point” trek. The first part of the trek was through a
thickly grown Silver Fern path that took us up, up, and over the front
side of the hillside. As we popped out of the thin path we found
ourselves at the top of a ridge in the center of a rolling countryside.
The caves were underneath the trek we walked upon (which was kind
of cool to think about because it just appeared to be a typical country
setting. The look-out was a nice little trek. It gave us a chance to
stretch out our legs before the 2.5 hour ride back to Rotorua.
When we returned home, Suey and I took a long hike in the Tihiotonga
Centennial Park. We stayed and hiked through the entire “Bewitching
Time”. We enjoyed the sunset and headed home after dusk.
We arrived back at the house to find that Jeff had grilled burgers and
Elijah made his “Special Olive Sauce”. What a disgustingly delicious
treat! But… even better than that was Suey’s super famous potato
salad!

After dinner, we played Monopoly. It was a lot of fun because we had
6 instead of 4 players. Also, we’ve altered the rules a bit by creating
“Shared Properties” among players. It’s a ton more fun that way. Ari
and Suey walked away in a tied winner state. Yay!