Sunday – April 28th
North Island – Rotorua

Today we got up…. It was a rainy day, so we all worked on our own various
projects. Cheryl and George had recommended that while we were in
Rotorua that we needed to visit the Whakarewarewa Forest. Once the rain
let up, we ventured out.
The four of us took the “Mokopuna” track, and Botbar and Suey took
another hike along long mile road. of it that wasn’t as far. The Mokopuna
track is 3.6 km long and is the only track in the heart of the Redwoods that
is designed for both walking and mountain biking. We passed through
beautiful mature Douglas Fir, Larch and Redwood forest with an understory
of Punga tree ferns.
The Redwoods Whakarewarewa Forest has over 14,000 acres to explore
and experience nature at its best. The history and culture surrounding it,
the variety of outdoor recreational opportunities, the diverse range of
exotic tree species, the mix of native undergrowth, the panoramic views
make it one of NZ’s greatest treasures.
The forest is most well known for the magnificent stand of California
Redwoods. These towering giants, rival closely to the giant Kauri’s. This
Forest is also one of the oldest exotic forests in NZ. It has a diverse range of
exotic tree species and mix of native plants and shrubs, and of course
many, many ferns.

The mix of fresh air combined with “virgin” rainforests make this a truly
unique environment. However, there is much more to the forest than
recreation alone. Local Maori have an affiliation with the land in this area
and it is steeped with deep spiritual meaning.
Originally planted as an experiment, 12 acres of Redwood seeds were
planted here in the early 1900’s. Today, approximately one percent of
those plantings remain. The Redwoods are successful in this grove
because they like sheltered sites in deep, fertile, well-drained soils with an
even rainfall. They do not tolerate frosts and in harsh sites are very slow
growing and easily smothered by weeds. Of 170 different tree species
(from around the) planted in the Whakarewarewa Forest as part of the trial
in the early 1900s, only a handful remain today.
The upper canopy of exotic tree species provides shelter and shade to a
kaleidoscope of ferns, shrubs, flowers and fungi. The understory of mostly
native plants is an important part of the forest eco-system and adds
greatly to the scenic value of the forest. Ferns are commonplace in this
landscape with about 200 native varieties. They have evolved into forms
that can cope in just about any environment so it is no surprise that one of
the most noticeable plants dominating the understory in the
Whakarewarewa forest is the fern.
Now would be a perfect time for me to share some of what I’ve learned
about ferns. They are the national symbol here, so it’s worth learning about
if you’re interested in NZ.
First the “Ponga” (Silver Fern) is one of the most distinctive with its silvery
white stalk and underside of mature fronds. It is one of New Zealand’s
national emblems shown clearly on the uniforms of our national sporting
teams. Although they are called ‘silver ferns’, the undersides of the fronds
are usually white; only in some northern populations are they actually
'silver'. The undersides reflect moonlight, making them useful aids to
navigating bush pathways at night. Once they took the path, they would
flip it right side up and it would disappear in the darkness. The silver fern is
the symbol of NZ national identity since the 1880’s. To the Maori, the
elegant shape of the fronds stand for strength, stubborn resistance, and
enduring power. To the “Pakeha” (Kiwi of non-Maori descent) the fern

symbolizes resiliency, and the gift for being conscious and everexpanding.
Next, the “Wheki” (Rough Tree Fern) is the most common of the tree
ferns and grows in abundance. Maori once used this fern for forming walls
of their houses as it lasts well in the ground. Today it is still used for fences
and steps and to define forest tracks.
The “Kiokio” (Palm-Leaf Fern) is the most common creeping ground
fern with its new growth tinged pink.
Finally, the “Mamaku” or (Black Tree Fern) is the most spectacular of the
ferns. Growing up to 20 metres tall the fronds arch out from thick black
stalks. This is the largest of the tree ferns and was very important to Maori
in times gone by, being used as food, medicine and lining for food stores.
Once we completed our hike, we headed home for dinner.
By the time we returned it was dark, so Suey had to hold a flashlight for me
while I barbecued chicken drumsticks. Ari made a Caprice salad, but
since we couldn’t find buffalo mozzarella I grilled Greek Paneer. It was a
new twist! After dinner we watched the full library of Ari’s videos from the
trip. She has found a great gift in her videography and directing.

Images

Ponga

Wheki

Kiokio

Mamaku

See… some of these ferns grow as tall as the trees!

