Monday – April 29th
North Island – Rotorua

We started the day by heading to the gym for a workout. Since we had
enjoyed our hike yesterday so much, we wanted to revisit the
Whakarewarewa Forest. It’s literally a few miles from our house and we
noticed that they have a tree walk, so we wanted to check it out.
The “Redwoods Tree Walk” (RWTW) is a 700-meter long, suspended walk that
has a series of 28 suspension bridges, traversing 27 majestic Redwood trees
that are between 115 to 120-year-old. The height of the walkway ranges
between 30 ft. and 65 ft. Which gave us an elevated view of the forest
below.
The “RWTW” has a clear vision for the environment first, and education
second. They’re at the leading edge in eco-tourism. The “RWTW” has been
“entrusted” by “Manu Whenua” (refers to building relationships to develop
a sense of belonging).
They unreservedly work as protectors of
Whakarewarewa Forest. Acting as guardians of the land and forest is a
core value of Māori culture and is known as “Kaitiakitanga”. This concept
of custodial care for; the sky, the sea, and the land and of a deep kinship
between humans and the natural world is the highest responsibility one has.
This is true not just for the Māori, but all Kiwi’s. With a strong focus on its care,
this forest, and the “RWTW” operation have created an environmental
legacy for the future.
As we proceeded along the way, we could feel the peace, ambiance and
spirit of the Redwood Forest. Especially at this unique birds’ eye perspective,
showcasing the natural beauty of the forest in an untouched way.

One thing that was so cool in an engineering sense, was that the walkway
was carefully constructed using a series of slings to avoid damaging the
Redwood trees or the existing natural environment. It had rained all
morning, so it was pretty slippery to walk on at times. But, it was beyond
cool. They also have the walk tours at night. They have artistically added
hanging lanterns in the trees, and have special lighting to create a dramatic
effect. We decided on the daytime route instead, because we thought
we’d see more. I’m glad we did, because we wouldn’t have had the full
vision and the bird song was an added bonus.
Environmental education is definitely the key of their mission. It was evident,
because at each step of the way, they were teaching about the science
behind the beauty. This enabled not just us but all who visit this special
place to learn about, appreciate, and feel moved to “do better” with our
own environmental footprints.
Once we completed the “RWTW” we wanted to take another hike before
we would say goodbye to the Whakarewarewa Forest. This time Suey joined
the 4 of us. We took the Redwood Memorial Track which is a short 2.2 km.
This is one of their most popular tracks. We meandered through the
breathtaking Californian Redwoods (Sequoia) which were planted in 1901.
These towering trees stand between 700-900 ft. tall. If you consider that
they’re only about 120 years old, you can then realize how fast they have
grown in NZ soil.
Along this trek we also saw many “European Larch” trees. It is native to the
mountains of central Europe, in the Alps and Carpathian Mountains as well as
the Pyrenees. Its life span has been confirmed to be close to 1000 to 2000 years
old. It is claimed that a larch was planted by the second Duke of Atholl in
Dunkeld, Scotland in 1738 is still standing. So, together with the Sequoia they
make quite a sight to behold. Both of these giants create a wonderful shelter
for and for a diverse assortment of native plants and birds. As always, there
was an adorable little fantail following us for part of the way. I sure will miss
those sweet little things on hikes back home. At the end of this track there was
a board walk which took us across a thermal pond. The pond was filled with
a variety of exotic plant life too.
Later that night, Suey made her “World Famous Spaghetti”. We were so
excited! Elijah was so eager… he sat down at the table 20 minutes before
hand!!! After we had stuffed ourselves with more than I would like to admit to,
we played another round of Monopoly. YAY! I won!

Images

European Larch

