Wednesday 4-3-19
North Island – Russell

We spent the majority of the day traveling. It was about a 7-hour drive to reach our
next destination. We would be going almost to the top of the North Island, situated in
the famous “Bay of Islands” to the small city of “Russell”. There are two main ways to
get to Russell, depending on how much time you have and your sense of adventure.
One by ferry, the other… the long haul. Since GPS’s doesn’t recognize the car ferry at
“Opua” we had to compensate for our arrival time. Actually, we were expecting the
ferry to be a big deal, but it wasn’t at all. You just wait in line in your car, and you drive
on to the ferry and put your car in park, set the emergency break, and turn it off. You
can get out if you’d like and walk around or not. Russell is more like a village. It’s in the
heart of the “Bay of Islands”. It’s like you’re walking back in time. It completely
reminded us of Mackinac Island (only there are cars, and the ferry ride is shorter).
We would be staying in two different homes while we are in Russell. One, farther away
from town in the bush overlooking the harbor for 5-nights, and another in the heart of
downtown Russell for 10-nights. While were here, Jeff would meet with two different
administrators. We arrived at our first home around 6 pm. It is called “Waikare Retreat”.
Here is the link: https://www.vrbo.com/20004747ha . We were kind of bummed when
we got here because we thought we would be on our own. We had envisioned that
we were in the middle of the bush alone. Yes! We were in a remote location, but the
owners live attached to the rental unit. We felt a bit like we were imposing. Another
reason why we were bummed is because the hot tub that they advertised in the listing,
was actually connected to the owner’s porch not our own. It seemed awkward.
All of that put aside, Katrina and Miles were very kind. The way that it was set up just
made us feel very uncomfortable. The unit only has one bedroom. There’s a queen
bed in the one bedroom. In the same bedroom, there’s also a twin bed. We ended
up moving the twin into the living room in order to have room for our suitcases and
Jeff’s keyboard. We had planned on Ari sleeping on the couch, and give the bed to
Elijah. Unfortunately, the couch turned out to be a loveseat. However, Katrina and
Miles also have a tiny “HUT” near our house that they let Elijah sleep in. It’s about 80
square feet, it has a sliding glass door that doesn’t lock, and a bed with a table. It has
electricity, but no water. They said Elijah could stay there for $80. We were thankful,

because it would have been super tight, and we’d still be on top of each other. We
were all craving more space after our last place in Whitanga, so this was a blessing for
Elijah and ourselves.
We’ve had to re-adjust our old patterns and remember Elijah is almost 20 years old,
and has been on his own, following his own direction, and doing his own thing. As
amazing as everything has been, It’s challenging to spend 5 months with your parents
and little sister 24-7. Jammed in the back seat, and sleeping sometimes in the living
room. Respecting one another’s privacy has been the one thing that we’ve all done
pretty well. We have learned how to create a tiny space around our own tiny spot in
each house and keep it sacred. This has kept us all sane. Again, 5 months is a long
time.
After we settled in as best as possible, Jeff and I took a walk. After sitting in the car its
always good to have a stretch. The walk was totally NOT safe. The road is narrow,
winding, and has NO shoulder. I’m not sure how we will manage this, but we’ll do our
best to be flexible.
When we returned, Ari cooked up her first try at Chicken Cacciatore, Wow! It was a
huge success! Triple yum! She’s really becoming a wonderful cook! I’d love to take all
of the credit, but she’s so inquisitive and eager to learn. She often finds recipes and
just goes for it! My mother, Carolann was an incredible cook, but so is my step-mother
Cheryl, so I had a ton of influence from them both. Let’s just say… I learned from the
best. Although my mother died just after Ari’s 5th birthday, Ari has learned to cook from
Cheryl and a super bonus is Suey (Jeff’s mom). Oh my, she is an amazing baker! Her
peanut butter cookies are divine! Ari and Suey often play “Chopped” which is a TV
show on Netflix where contestants are given ingredients and they have an hour to whip
up culinary delights. Anyway, her chicken Cacciatore nailed it!!!
After dinner we watched “Parks and Rec”. It’s always good for light comedic humor!

Images

