Tuesday – April 30th
North Island – Rotorua

Today we headed to “Middle-Earth” and the famous “Hobbiton Movie Set”.
Deep in the heart of the Waikato region, on the outskirts of Matamata. The
rolling meadows speckled with sheep were exactly what I had envisioned. As
we arrived, we stepped into the world of Tolkien. The lush pastures of the “Shire”
were right before our eyes. If you don’t know what I’m talking about, I’m
referring to “The Lord of the Rings” trilogy and “The Hobbit” trilogy. All 6 films
had portions that were filmed. Right here. While we were here, we would be
going on a guided tour around the 12-acre set; Through the “Shire”, around
each Hobbit Hole, past the Mill, and into the world-famous “Green Dragon
Inn/Pub”. Where we will enjoy exclusive Hobbit “Southfarthing” (specialty
brewed ales) to conclude our Middle-earth adventure. We couldn’t wait to
get started!
Here’s a little back history. In 1998, Sir Peter Jackson’s team of location scouts
were searching for the iconic rolling hills and lush green pastures that would
become Hobbiton. An aerial search led them here to the Alexander farm, a
stunning 1,250-acre working sheep farm. They noted the area’s striking similarity
to The Shire, as described by JRR Tolkien, and quickly realized that the Hobbit
had just found a home.
The Alexander family sheep farm offered Jackson the unequivocal beauty he
needed to help make his vision real. With the mighty “Kaimai Ranges” towering
in the distance, this was the perfect spot. Our guide, escorted us around the
set, showing the intricate detailing, pointing out the most famous locations and
explaining how the movie magic was made.
Back in March 1999 a crew began the nine-month quest to bring the ideas for
Hobbiton into fruition. They were helped by the New Zealand Army, and soon

39 temporary Hobbit Hole were scattered across the 12-acre plot used for the
set. Secrecy was key, and strict security measures were put in place by the
production company throughout construction and filming. Filming
commenced in December 1999, and it took around three months to get a wrap
on “The Shire”.
In one particular part of the farm, a magnificent pine tree towers over a nearby
lake, adjacent to a rising hill. “Bag End” sits atop that hill, overlooking the “Party
Tree”.
My brother Dave asked me for a special favor… His friend J.B. was a huge Lord
of the Rings and Hobbit fan. Unfortunately, he passed away. It was his wish
that upon his death that someone would honor him by taking his memory to
Hobbiton. Once I got to “Bag End” I knew this was the right spot. I took a
picture of his image in order to fulfill his dream. Across J.B.’s photo are the
words, “There and Back Again”. I was pleased to help. I said a little prayer for
him, and sent it back to Dave. He replied with one word…” Perfect”.
As we walked through Hobbiton we were completely enchanted! The whole
place just left us spellbound. It was perfect! Even the butterflies everywhere
were real. Everything appeared as if it were completely untouched.
Every detail had to be perfect. No power lines, no buildings and no roads could
be in sight. We could really leave the 20th century behind, and become fully
submerged in the fantasy world of Middle-earth. The attention to detail was
terrific.
The fantails (my favorite little NZ birds) fluttered past the tiny picket fences,
which were all surrounded by perfectly tended real flower gardens. Little round
doors, painted in the bright colors popped out from the hillside. On top of the
hill stood an oak tree, still brilliantly green (though it's the middle of fall) But how?
The truth is that the oak tree on the hill above “Bag End” was completely fake.
It’s made of fiberglass. This famous oak has 376,000 artificial leaves imported
from Taiwan and each one was painstakingly wired onto each branch and
twig. When the leaves faded in the sun, someone was employed to repaint
them, one by one.
Here’s another example of attention to detail, during production, frogs claimed
the man-made pond located on set as their new home. But these frogs were
so loud during filming that the actors couldn’t hear one another. It was another
person’s job to collect all of the frogs from the pond each morning.

If that were not enough, they also hired someone to walk back and forth every
morning in order to make a semi-worn path out to the washing lines every day,
to create the look on freshly walked grass.
In 2009, Sir Peter Jackson returned to film The Hobbit trilogy. After the last filming
in 1999, some of the set had been dismantled, so Jackson had them replace
the ones that had been demolished, and he added 5 additional Hobbit holes.
In 2012, “The Green Dragon Inn” was created for the finale at the end of the
last movie. Our guided tour ended there as well. We all headed into the famous
pub for a pint of “Southfarthing” Brew. There was an abundance of movie
magic nestled inside this fully operational pub. “Good George Brewing” in
proud to offer a range of specialty beer, ciders, and ginger beer exclusively for
the Hobbiton. Once we finished the tour, we bought an Amber Ale to share
with our next burger night.
After we completed our afternoon in “Middle Earth” we headed back to the
Whakarewarewa Forest. We had already taken 2 other treks and the Tree Walk
there, but there was one more trek we wanted to enjoy before we left Rotorua.
This trek is called the “Waitawa Walk”. It’s a 3.4 km hike so Botbar didn’t join us,
but Suey did. It took us through the breathtaking Redwoods into a magnificent
stand of Douglas Fir.
As we wandered along, we caught a few deep whiffs from the rich,
pungent soil… a smell that I love. However, further on the reeking stench
of a hidden nearby sulphur spring took my breath away. Fortunately, a
few curves and hills ahead, and it was gone.
We proceeded on to a huge stand of the ever-famous New Zealand “Silver
fern”. Giant sized “Mamaku ferns” and “Punga ferns” were also in on the mix.
There were some gorgeous spots where we all got quiet to be in peace
with the forest’s vibe. What an incredible place!
Once we returned home, we all had leftovers for dinner since we’d be
leaving early Thursday morning we needed to eat up all of the goods
from all of our awesome meals. While we were eating we found out that
Botbar and Suey have never seen any of the Hobbits or Lord of the Rings.
So, after we ate we watched “Hobbit 1 An Unexpected Journey”.

Images

