**North Island – Russell**

Jeff, Elijah, and I woke up early and decided that we were just going to hang
out and have a “Well Filling Day”, (I explain what that means in a minute). As we
were having coffee and tea, quietly typing away on our computers, we looked
out on the second story porch and saw a “Weka” walking around looking like it
wanted to come in the house. Now, I know that I’ve already told you a little bit
about the Weka, but they honestly do deserve a second show.

The Weka is a wild and nearly endangered, hen-sized bird with caramel and
black striped feathers, strong tapered beaks, sturdy dinosaur-like legs and tiny
red eyes, (indicative of their criminal character). Sadly, they are very susceptible
to predators, cars, habitat loss and climate change. Since 1900, Weka have
disappeared from most regions of the South Island, and many in the North Island.
They’re a fascinating bird in many respects; their history, intelligence, general allround bad-boy/girl naughtiness, make them more interesting than one might
think. Weka are often mistaken for kiwi by tourists. They’re known to be
mischievous and are often caught stealing human things. They’re cunning
thieves. They’ll steal just about anything such as; socks, jewelry, keys, and … the
list goes on… Here’s an interesting fact. A Weka poops its body weight in a day.
That’s a LOT of poop! They’re important pest controllers and seed dispersers.
They’re also known to kill rats and mice, making them an ecological good guy.
Weka possess an extraordinary homing instinct and in one notable case in the
late 1970’s three Weka were banded before being removed from Maud Island,
in the Marlborough Sounds. They were released on to the mainland. However,
the trio were back on the island within a few days (after a long hike and a 900meter swim against the current). I think they’re pretty clever and kind of cute.
As long as it doesn’t steal anything or poop on the porch!

We all spent the day in somewhat of a solitary arrangement. Basically we were
all physically present, but engrossed into our own little world. We all had our
headphones/ear buds on/in and worked diligently on whatever we needed or
wanted to do.

Throughout the day, Jeff took a couple walks, as did I. The landscape at this
location is beautiful, but we’re really taking chances by walking on the only road
that there was. The road is similar to the roads I’ve described all along; incredibly
narrow, winding, lined with huge drop offs. So, in order to walk them, you have
to listen intently to the car approaching and quickly cross to the correct side
before they get there. Sometimes, if traffic is coming from both directions at the
same time there is nothing to do but either press your self up tight to the rocky
side, or balance yourself on the thin shoulder with steep drop offs. Either way,
not safe at all. Jeff and I are walkers. If we’re composing/writing, we need to
take frequent breaks to re-set our thinking. This location doesn’t allow for that,
so it’s a bummer in that way too.

The evening was spent in much of the same way as the afternoon. We all quietly
nestled into our own space, just hanging out by ourselves. When we get in this
mode we try to be mindful and not talk to each other. I like to think of it as a
necessary time where we all fill our own wells. The concept seems simple, but
too often we as humans we focus on the care of others, and not the care of
ourselves. Self care means doing things for yourself and with yourself that nurture
you. After all, you can’t give from a well that’s empty! For me, creativity requires
that I have enough left in my well in order to be inspired. I believe everyone can
create, design, or build whatever they can imagine. If we don’t refill
occasionally, our creativity suffers. There comes a point where the person’s inner
well from which all this creativity flows through runs dry. It must be “refilled” from
time to time in order to keep a fresh flow. That’s the key to being not only
inspired, but in having the energy to allow the inspiration to come through you
instead of from you. I feel blessed that our family understands this.