**North Island – Russell**

We started the day with exciting news! Elijah has been working for Sebastian Garbsch
as the lead software developer for AMPEL Feedback. He started working at AMPLE over
a year and a half ago, and has been loving his job. It’s been a great fit for him because
although AMPLE is headquartered in Traverse City, he can work from anywhere. Since
then they have hired on another developer and a graphic designer it has really begun
to take off. Elijah’s big news was a promotion of sorts. Instead of receiving a salary,
Elijah now has 30% ownership of the upstart! We are very happy for him but he has
been anxious with the transition as he is now looking for a contracting job for a small
source of income. His boss, Sebastian is a highly motivated 30-something, who has
been an excellent mentor to Elijah. We are excited for him and for this opportunity to
be a stakeholder in this Start-Up. One thing is certain… Elijah is a go-getter! His sense
of inspiration mixed with ingenuity make a recipe for perseverance. He has always had
a sense of vision followed by a belief that he can find a way to make things happen.
We are so proud of him.

Once Ari woke up, we headed to the gym. Since the gym is in Paihia, we have to take
the ferry to get to it. It’s odd that your car (filled with as many people as you can fit) is
only $26 round trip, but if you take the passenger ferry for four it’s $48. We can’t figure
out how that makes sense, but whatever.

After our workout, we stopped into downtown Russell (which is about the size of
Leland). The only grocery store is 4-square. (Count Down is the largest, then New
World, then 4-square). It’s about the same size of stores in a larger gas station back
home. So, the pickings are a bit slim.

We went back to taking care of “Back Home Responsibilities” for about 3 hours, and
Jeff and I took a 4 mile walk, where I showed him the path from Long Beach to
Downtown.

Later, Ari prepped the dinner by loading the Shish-Kabobs skewers so that Jeff could
BBQ them. I made the rice, and we gobbled them up! We were all pretty hungry.
That night, we watched my all time favorite Marvel, the “Black Panther”. If you haven’t
seen it by now, I highly recommend it! Of course, Jeff made his awesome specialty…
Popcorn!