**North Island – Russell**

Today would be our last “dig in deep” to “Back Home Responsibilities”
for a few days. We assumed that once we get to our 2nd Russell house
we will want to enjoy the benefits of being in town and being able to
walk around wherever we want. For now, we’d test fate and hope that
our angels are following us each time we went on a walk.
We thought that before dinner we’d like to try the hot-tub. We felt
pretty weird, because the hosts were only about 15 feet away, and
their door walls were fully opened. Katrina was sprawled out on the
floor doing yoga and Miles was sitting there watching TV. We tried not
to look at them in fear that they would be stuck looking at us. It was
all pretty awkward.

We didn’t last long anyway… the temperature in the hot tub was
about 115 degrees (yikes!). Oh well, I suppose that’s just the way it
goes. When we booked this space we envisioned that we’d be in this
hot tub all the time, but there was nothing we could do at this point. I
think we learned the lesson that when we have found a listing that we
like, we should be specific with the host in asking if they are on site, and
if areas are “shared” or not. This was really our mistake by not asking,
(although we did feel like it was a bit of false advertising). Well, anyway
we looked at it, we would be leaving on Tuesday anyway.
Later that night, we watched “Suicide Squad”. Now just to be clear,
these characters are from DC comics, which are the competitor of
Marvel. I’m not saying that we’re Marvel snobs… we still enjoy the DC universe, but they are definitely not the same caliber. It stars Will Smith,
and was produced by Warner Brothers. We thought Will did an
excellent performance, (as he usually does). The story-line was a bit
twisted, but that’s the way we like it, so overall we give it a thumbs up!