Sunday – April 7
North Island – Russell

Today we will do one of the most important activities to be done while we’re
here in NZ, the “Waitangi Treaty Grounds”. The Treaty of Waitangi (Te Tiriti
o Waitangi) is an important agreement that was signed by representatives of the
British Crown and Māori in 1840… The Treaty aimed to protect the rights of Māori
to keep their land, forests, fisheries and treasures while handing over sovereignty
to the English. How it was implemented leads to another discussion…
As we crossed the bridge that connects the Treaty Grounds to the city of Paihia,
the sign read; “Nau Mai Haere Mai” (Welcome to New Zealand’s Most Important
Historical Site). I was so excited to step back in time to discover the birthplace of
this amazing nation. This is unquestionably one of New Zealand’s premier
attractions and since I love history, so I almost couldn’t stand myself.
We made our way to the entrance and paid our admission fee. Over the next 4
hours, we would; explore the museum, take a walking tour, be invited inside their
Holy Meeting House to watch their cultural performance, and watch two
educational films.
We needed to wait about 30 minutes for the next tour. While we were waiting
we headed to the museum to see some of the artifacts. On first blush of the
museum, we were amazed at how well documented and preserved the artifacts
were presented. As we progressed through the exhibition, the growth of the
relationship between Māori and the British unfolded, leading to the signing of the
Treaty of Waitangi in 1840. As we explored further, we discovered the ways in
which this unique document shaped their nation over the course of nearly two
centuries, right up to the present day.

Once the tour began each guest was given a receiver and earpiece to carry so
we could clearly hear the tour guide (we just put the receiver in our pocket). The
walking tour lasted about an hour.
As we journeyed through the expanse of the grounds, the spectacular views over
the “Bay of Islands”, inspired us. It was so exciting to discover the momentous
events that shaped this nation. The guide enhanced our experience by also
giving us details as to the meanings behind Maori protocol and culture. We
toured the iconic buildings which represent examples of Māori architecture. We
also saw the world’s largest ceremonial war canoe.
Next, we were led to their “Holy Meeting House”. This house is sacred, so we had
to take our shoes off before entering with only whispers. It is disrespectful to take
any movies/film of any kind. They said it was okay to take pictures, so I got a few.
Next, we were enthralled by over 30 minutes of high-energy dancing and song.
There are 3 men and 3 women in this performance. They welcomed us inside
with a traditional Māori welcome “Powhiri”. Once we were seated on the
benches we looked around at all of the stunningly carved surroundings that
depicted the history and genealogy NZ.
The performance started with the men and a traditional “Haka” dance. The
“Haka” is an ancient Māori war dance traditionally used on the battlefield, as
well as when groups came together in peace. The “Haka” is a fierce display of
a tribe's pride, strength and unity. Actions include violent foot-stamping, tongue
protrusions and rhythmic body slapping to accompany an aggressively loud
chant. In today’s day and age, the “Haka” is performed before every soccer
game by the “ALL BLACKS” national soccer team. We’ve watched the Maori
do the “Haka” in TV, videos, and uTube, but it was especially exciting in real life.
I would imagine it might be scary to little kids though. Their extensive body
tattoo’s added to the visual effect.
Then, the females did the “Poi twirling”. The “Poi” is a physical objects used by
the dancers, (shaped in 2 balls attached by a cord). The “Poi” performance is
usually practiced by women. However, legends indicate that it was first used by
men to develop wrist flexibility for the use of hand weapons such as the club-like
“Patu”. Māori “Poi” come in two forms: short, with strings equal to the length of
the fingertips to the wrist; and long, with strings equal to the distance from
fingertips to shoulder. The “Poi” performance includes either storytelling or singing
in conjunction with choreographed routines. Originally, the “Poi” were most
commonly made from “Harakeke” (New Zealand flax). They stripped and
scraped the flax to get to the “Muka” (inner flax fiber), which was twisted into
two strands to make the “Taura” (cord) as well as the “Aho” (ties). They danced

and swung the “Poi” with such precision it was incredible! It would take a long
time (and much practice) to be able to do what they did. It was perfectly
synchronized.
Finally, through very intense yelling and sweeping motions the 3 male performers
presented the Maori weaponry. The “Rākau” (weapons) were designed for
hand-to-hand combat. In battle, it was common for “Toa” (warriors) to take a
long handled weapon such as a “Taiaha” (long-handled fighting staff) and a
short weapon such as a “Patu” (club) tucked into a belt. Māori wore little clothing
when going into battle apart from a “Maro” (kilt) or a “Tātua” (belt). In some
cases, a “Tapahu” (dog-skin war cloak) or a “Pauku” (cloak to shield spear
thrusts), was worn. Māori did not use bows and arrows, so fighting was almost
entirely hand-to-hand. Famous weapons were given names and handed down
from generation to generation. Scattered throughout the performances, were
heavenly harmonies of many traditional Maori folksongs. One of the songs was
the ever famous “Pōkarekare Ana”. They also played the guitar. What a treat
to see…
When the performance was over, we headed back to the museum. There, we
saw a copy of the treaty. We had learned so much from the tour and the
ceremony that we were able to delve even deeper into the stories and artifacts
the second time around.
We learned about how their history was similar to our US history in the treatment
and injustice that the Maori or Native Americans experienced. Most scientists
agree that first humans in the America’s was roughly 25,000 + years. The
Viking explorer who beat Columbus to America was the famous explorer, Leif
Eriksson. It is believed that he led the first European expedition to North America.
Leif led his expedition 500 years before the birth of Christopher Columbus (roughly
2000 years ago). Conversely, the history of New Zealand dates back only about
800 years. It was first discovered and settled by Polynesians, who developed a
distinct Māori culture centered on kinship, clans, and land. The first European
explorer to sight New Zealand was Dutch navigator Abel Tasman on 13
December 1642. (Only 377 years ago). My point is that New Zealand is first off, a
very young country. However, I find it fascinating that there was absolutely no
human to walk on these two little islands on the bottom of the world until almost
a thousand years ago.
We then watched two movies the educational film; “Waitangi – Birthplace of a
Nation” It explained how “Aotearoa's” (NZ) founding document, the Treaty of

Waitangi, was created between the British Crown and the North Island’s Māori
chiefs.
The second film was focused around the unjust treatment of the Maori. In 1995,
Queen Elizabeth herself made the first direct apology to the Maori of New
Zealand for the killings and seizure of land that they suffered under her ancestor
Queen Victoria. Her profound regret and apologies were sincere. This has
helped the Maori to heal from the the loss of lives and invasion of their homeland.
The devastation of property and social life were noted and appreciated. Today,
the traditions of the Maori are embraced by the Kiwi’s.
The flagstaff marks the spot where the “Treaty of Waitangi” was first signed on 6
February 1840. It was erected by the Royal New Zealand Navy in 1934.
The flags flying are the five official flags that New Zealand has had since 1834 –
the flag of the United Tribes of New Zealand (the earliest), the Union Jack (from
1840) and the New Zealand flag (from 1902), the Maori tribal flag (1995) and the
modern United Silver Fern (1995).
It was a pleasure to be able to stand in the exact spot where the treaty was
signed (under the flagpole). Once we move to our other home in Russell, I’m
eager to see if we can spot the location of the flagpole from across the bay.

Images

