Monday – April 8
North Island – Russell

This would be our last night at “Waikare Retreat”. We were excited to checkout because we really needed some personal space and a little bit of privacy.
Our stay at “Waikare Retreat” was kind of a disappointing. Since we had been
in Waitanga for so long (and with no space), and then came here (with no
space) we were ready to spread out a bit. We decided that on the days that we
went to Paihia to work out we would get our step in there. It made me feel antsy
to be stuck walking up and down the driveway at at “Waikare Retreat”. So after
we worked out, Jeff and I walked around Paihia, while the kids went to a coffee
shop to work.
On our walk we went to “St. Paul’s Anglican Church”. It was constructed of
“Kawakawa” stone. The massive walls of blue stone, were quarried locally. The
contrasting brick ornamentation around arched doors and windows was quite
stunning. The roof was slated while above the main entrance there is a leadcapped spiral. It stands on the site of the original mission church, a
simple “Raupo” (bulrush) hut erected in 1823. The native birds in the stained glass
above the altar – the “Kotare” (kingfisher) represents Jesus (the king plus ‘fisher
of men’), while the “Tui” (parson bird) and “Kereru” (wood pigeon) represent
peace. In the adjoining graveyard dating from about 1826 several important
people in European history lie buried.
Once we reached our step goal, we decided that we looped around the little
town a few times, and meandered through the middle of the village. Then, we
walked back to the beach right before the bridge that connects the “Waitangi
Treaty Grounds” with “Paihia”. There, we laid in the sun and ate oranges. When
we decided that we had had enough sun, we started to walk back into town to
meet the kids.

Along the way, we saw a young girl about Elijah’s age on an industrial sized lift
painting the side of the cliff walls. There we many other people down below
taking pictures. It looked like she was about to finish. Her mural was beautiful! It
was an ocean scene with a woman’s profile with a Blue Whale, Orca, a
swordfish, two dolphins, and a sting ray. All done in a brilliant blue color that was
super eye catching. Kiwi’s love their mural work… it’s everywhere! Their
appreciation for the arts are inspiring!
When we caught up with Elijah and Ari for lunch out. Of course, Elijah was
walking around barefoot (as usual). He has really enjoyed the freedom that it
gives. I’ve found it handy when I’ve switched gears and not been prepared to
go into places… Secretly, it takes me back to my 13-15-year-old “rebel” self,
gotta love it!
We went to a little sushi shop that had all of the sushi rolls made up and cut in the
cooler. We grabbed a plastic container and just picked out a variety of different
sushi. It was fun because we got to try all different kinds, and it wasn’t too
expensive (about $1-2 each). So, we sat, street side and had a wonderful treat!
That night when we returned to at “Waikare Retreat”, we basically packed up
our stuff and got ready for check out the next morning.

Images

