Tuesday – April 9
North Island – Russell
(Part 2)

We were so excited to go to the next house. It’s about 15 minutes away from
the other house, but this one is literally downtown Russell. The house has 3
bedrooms and 2 bathrooms, YAY! We’ll finally have some space. Here in the
listing; https://www.vrbo.com/20020563ha
It’s situated in the heart of the village, on the hill facing the water. Across the
channel to Paihia. The sweeping views from all of rooms offer a great vantage
point. The zig-zag track into the village below, is only 3 minutes away from all of
the cafes, restaurants, galleries and shopping.
The town’s original street plan and names from 1843 and are still intact. They
feature some of New Zealand’s oldest and most significant historic buildings.
Russell or in Maori “Kororareka” was developed initially as a shore station for
shipping. Once settled, the European population grew, with a mixture of
deserting seamen, runaway convicts, and grog sellers, as well as settlers and
traders. The township thus gained a reputation as a “lawless and rowdy port”
and the unflattering nickname “Hell Hole of the Pacific”. Many of the buildings
seen in Russell Township now are dated back to these times. Today, it is a high
end-posh tourist town.
Legend has it that Kororāreka is named after a broth made from the little blue
penguin which was given to a Maori chief wounded in battle. Today, little blue
penguins still come ashore after dark on the beach at Russell/Kororāreka to nest
under the floorboards of waterfront buildings. The “Bay of Islands” has always
been desirable real estate. Long before Europeans arrived Māori had heavily
settled its numerous bays, inlets and sheltering islands. With its mild, frost free
climate it was a land of plenty: its waters and seashore were rich in kai-moana

(fish and shellfish), the deep forests were a great source of wild foods, the fertile
soils supported large māra (gardens). The Māori first came to Aotearoa-New
Zealand about 800 years ago migrating from the eastern pacific in great doublehulled voyaging waka (ocean going canoes). Māori throughout the country still
trace their whakapapa (family trees) back to those first waka, and it’s from one
of these canoes named Mataatua that people of the local Ngapuhi iwi (tribe)
claim descent.
As soon as we checked-in we were jumping up and down with excitement!!! This
house is AWESOME! Once we got the low-rider unpacked, we were just so
relieved. It was incredible to have so much space.
Jeff and I watched the glorious sunset over the harbor. We decided that no
matter what, we would sit and enjoy the sunset every night. There’s nothing
better than a direct westerly sunset over water. Before we moved to our real
house, this was the one things that drove our decision. Over the past almost 6
years, we have been spoiled with this gift of nature. So, we were just enamored
to be in this house.
Later, Elijah and Ari had Mac and Cheese and retreated to their own rooms. Jeff
and I had Nacho’s and watched a documentary film about the iconic NZ
folksong; “Pōkarekare Ana”. It has been performed countless times since the
early-twentieth century. It has also been recorded and published on many
occasions. The enduring fascination with “Pōkarekare Ana” partly derives from
the many transformations the song has undergone over the years. The lyrics – a
plea for a maiden to return to her lover’s arms – have been translated into various
languages, adapted and parodied. There has also been much interest and
debate regarding the song’s uncertain origins. Here is the translation;
“Pōkarekare Ana”
The waters on the lake are stormy,
But they will calm down when you cross over them.
I have written letters and still a ring,
So that your people can see that I am troubled.
My pen is worn out and I have no more paper,
But still my sorrow is unending.
My grief will never be dried up by the sun,
My tears will keep flowing.

(Chorus)
Oh my beloved return to me,
I'm dying of sorrow.

Images

