**North Island – Rotorua**

After a big breakfast and a little bit of “Back Home Responsibilities”, we
all headed to the gym to workout. Once we had sufficiently kicked
our own behinds, we headed back to the house to change and have
some lunch before our big excursion. Today we “broke the bank” and
decided to take the “Ultimate Zipline Experience”.
We met at the headquarters of Rotorua Canopy Tours right in town.
There, we met our guides, Henry and Spencer, who fitted us with our
safety gear and gave us an instructional briefing before we could set
off into the rainforest. We were put in a group of 8, for our 4-hour
adventure. We loaded up into a van and headed northwest of
Rotorua on the Mamaku Plateau to the Dansey Scenic Reserve. This
1,200-acre paradise is one of the most in-tact native eco-systems you’ll
find anywhere in the world.

Life in the Dansey Scenic Reserve has flourished for century after
century. A cobalt deficiency in the soil (courtesy of Rotorua’s
geothermal landscape) means deer, boars and wild goats have
always steered clear of this area. They can’t metabolize the plants that
grow here, so the damage these animals normally inflict on young
trees and shrubs hasn’t occurred. Because of these factors, this reserve
has been kept in its prehistoric state. It’s been left untouched and is
an excellent example of an ancient rainforest. Our tour took us through
grand stands of trees have stood for thousands of years and are home
to countless rare species of native birds, invertebrates, reptiles and
fungi. We felt like we had just stepped into a lost world and come face
to face with native flora that just didn’t seem to look real. We had
immersed ourselves in sensory overload and it was too difficult to
believe it was all before us. This breathtaking rainforest not only smelled
of deep spring, but we heard the inimitable birdsong of New Zealand
native birds including Tui’s, North Island Robins, and fantails in their
natural habitat.

As we traversed the reserve on foot (by way of a thin trail) to the first
platform, Henry and Spencer stopped many times. They were very
informative and taught us about many things we hadn’t yet learned
about, such as “Lancewood” tree. Lancewood, (in Maori “Horoeka”)
is a tree with lance-like foliage that changes dramatically as the tree
matures. In fact, young trees are so different from adults that early
botanists believed they were different species. Scientists call the
condition of having very distinct juvenile and adult forms
‘heteroblasty’. There is no general agreement about why certain plant
species do this. When young, they have a very straight and thin trunk
without branches and a cluster of long, narrow, flat leaves at the top.
Adult leaves are less than half the length of the juvenile’s leaves and
twice the width, and they form a rounded crown at the top of the tree.
Lancewood can grow up to 50 feet high, it has smooth bark, with ropelike ridges in the juvenile form. The tree remains in a juvenile stage for
about 15 to 20 years. The midribs of young leaves are strong and
supple and were used by European settlers as bootlaces and for
mending bridles and harnesses. The straight, flexible trunks were
sometimes used as whips. Maori in the South Island (Te Wai Pounamu)
also used the pounded leaves of the lancewood to gather fine hairs
then used to create paint brushes for rock painting. Maori folklore
states if the lancewood flowers well in the spring, then birds will be
plentiful in the following year, as the berries take a year to ripen. It is
tradition for the Maori that when a son is born, the elders pick out a
sapling Lancewood in the forest in honor of that child. The elder ties the sapling in a knot. In the time that the son has reached manhood,
the Lancewood is chopped down, and the knot becomes a cane for
the man to use in his elderly life. I just love the symbolism of that!

Once we reached the first platform Henry and Spencer refreshed us
on the rules for engagement. It can be fatal if you make one wrong
move, so they were very serious while they instructed us. Henry and
Spencer made our group feel instantly comfortable and at ease. They
made an intentional effort to get to know each of us individually.
Which helped earn our trust. They quickly learned all of our names and
referred to them each time they gave us instructions.

Before we know it… the thrills began! The next 3 hours were filled with
one endorphin rush after another. We took a total of 9 zip lines that
were between 75 ft. to 125 ft. above the forest floor. We reattached
on 11 treetop platforms that connected each zipline. We crossed 5
suspended swing bridges between 90 ft. and 110 ft. above ground.
When we were on the 110 ft. one, I was able to catch a “shadow
photo” of the four of us on the canopy below. We shimmied across a
thrilling walkway that hung off the edge of a cliff 150 ft. above the
canopy. We climbed a “floating” spiral staircase that was 2 stories tall
to soak-up a breathtaking view of Lake Rotorua. At the end of our
tour, we scaled down a 60 ft. abseil to return to the forest floor. I did
mine upside down, I felt like a trapeze artist, and Jeff took the
Spiderman pose.

Once everyone was safely back on the ground Henry and Spencer
talked about the importance of preserving the Dansey. We learned
that by participating in this activity we contributed to their
conservation efforts, (as a part of our ticket price went towards the
protection of this beautiful rainforest). Further, they expressed the
urgency of removing all invasive species that do not belong here.
Then, they gave us an opportunity to hand feed a sweet little North
Island Robin. It was so cool to have a wild bird trust you enough to
hover over our hand and grab a mealworm from our palm.
I can’t even begin to tell you how utterly exhausted we were once we
got back to the house. It had been one adrenaline rush after another
for 3 hours straight. With the wind in our hair, sometimes traveling at
speeds of 30 mph, we were pretty whipped! Since we would be
leaving here in the morning to head to our next house, I wanted to go
down to the “Tihiotonga Centennial Park” for a final goodbye. I only
walked about 3 km. because I was so tired, but the sunset was
spectacular! Once I returned we all got cozy and watched the Hobbit
II, and called it a night. What an awesome day!