**North Island – Gisborne**

We got up early to get started on the cleaning and packing routine.
We needed to get out at a decent time because we had a 7-hour
drive ahead of us. Actually 7 really turns into 8 because of stopping for
gas and so forth. However, we wanted to stop half way through the
journey in Tauranga to workout at a Snap Fitness. We really like to
break-up the trip with a workout because I get antsy after a while
sitting in the car or anywhere.

Once we were done with our workout we jumped on highway 2 which
stretch’s out along side the Pacific Ocean. The little visited and
unspoiled Eastland harbors have some of New Zealand’s most
dramatic scenery. We followed the Pacific Coast Highway as it
hugged the shore all the way from Opotiki to Te Araroa, we passed
through tunnels of ancient Pohutukawa forests, tiny settlements rich in
Maori culture, and spectacular, deserted bays.

Gisborne is the first city in the world to see the sun each day. This
easternmost tip of the country is famous for its beautiful sunrises! The
Maori name for this district is “Tairawhiti” which means "The coast upon
which the sun shines across the water".

Gisborne lies on the northeastern corner of the central North Island and
has a population of about 35,000. It’s home to the second largest (after
Rotorua) Māori population in NZ. In fact, 49% of the population identify
as Māori, compared to the national average of 15%.
It’s beautiful coastline, densely forested mountain parks, surfing, and
fishing make it a unique destination. The Kiwi’s call it “Gizzy”. It is also
sometimes referred to as the “City of Rivers”, because it sits at the
convergence of the Waimata, Taruheru and Turanganui rivers.
With high, hot sunshine hours and fertile clay loam soils Gisborne is an
ideal environment for winemaking. The region is noted for its
Chardonnay, Merlot and Malbec wines. Gisborne earned the
unofficial “Chardonnay Capital” title because of its award-winning
status. The grape varietal predominates the region’s wine production,
though it’s not the only style it is renowned for. As the third largest wine
producer in New Zealand, Gisborne’s relatively remote landscapes
make it a prime location for cultivating other aromatic varieties
particularly Pinot Gris and Viognier.

We arrived late, so by the time we unloaded we didn’t want to bother
to go shopping and then cook a meal so we decided to walk into town
and find something to go.

Our Gisborne house was called “River View Cottage”. Here is the link:
https://www.airbnb.co.nz/rooms/15648936?
The house’s location is an ideal place to explore Gisborne, the
surrounding beaches and vineyards. The stunning river views, were
right outside our door. And it was just a 5-minute walk along the river
to the heart of the city with all its restaurants, bars and cafes.
We ended up going to a noodle bar called “Fusion” and Dominoes for
Pizza. Once we returned to the house we had our late dinner,
watched a few episodes of “Family Guy” and headed to bed.
