**North Island – Gisborne**

Since we arrived late the night before, we were excited to get up and out early to
go check out the city. The way that it was situated next to the ocean but with the
three rivers converging together in the center of the city really make the downtown
area a very beautiful scene. It kind of reminded me of Amsterdam mixed with Naples
Florida. We were in a suburb called Kaiti, (southeast of the city center). The house
was situated right on the riverside on Esplanade. The river was lined with grassy parks
and sidewalks lined with palm trees.

Jeff and I headed to the Farmers Market first. While we were there, we bought fresh
fish (White Snapper) from a local monger. We also bought some more of the local
Chardonnay wine “HiHi”. When we had arrived last night, our hosts had a bottle as
a gift for us. We enjoyed it so much we bought another, and also a Merlot to try as
well. I bought some lovely peapods and huge bulbs of garlic to go with the fish. I
already had some wild rice so dinner would be a treat! To top it off, Jeff bought me
a beautiful bouquet of white roses. They’re my favorite!

Once we had seen everything there, we headed further into town to explore. The
square had a beautiful clock tower, and all of the cars parked diagonally in the
street. Everything was so tidy! There was artwork stationed on many corners. It
looked like a city that was working hard to be classy.

However, as we continued to explore, we couldn’t help but notice the high number
of homeless people. Worse yet, the majority of the homeless people looked like they
were pretty “strung out” on some kind of drug. Gisborne sits in the bay just north of
the Hawke’s Bay region. Hawke’s Bay is the home of the notorious, “Mongrel Mob”
(NZ’s organized biker gang). They have a network of more than thirty chapters
throughout the country. What makes them different from US gangs is that they often
do charity work. In fact, after the Christchurch shootings they were helpful in keeping
order during the chaos, (many of them also willingly gave up their guns before they
were required to do so). I’m not proposing that they’re angels… but rather even the
“darkest” of the criminals here in NZ still have morals. Let’s face it… they run drugs,
and get in bar fights, but their not known to be violent in nature. The Mongrel’s supply
NZ with the majority of it’s drugs including a huge amount of methamphetamine. A
NZ Health Survey ties Hawke’s Bay as the region of greatest use. In all of NZ, 1.4% of
the general population admits to using illegal drugs within the past year, (as
compared to 9.4% in the US).

The reason why the numbers are lower in NZ because they engage users at a
community level first. As part of their health care system, they have people who are
on the streets enlisting users to get sober. That way they can better triage people for
what type of rehabilitation services they need. Most of the time it’s a mental health
issue or trauma that led them down this devastating road.
People struggling with drug addictions need time-out spaces, places that are
supportive and non-judgmental. Most importantly, they need environments that
keep them away from the temptation. More than anything though… they have to
“WANT” to be clean. Addiction is a horrible disease that ruins lives. It not only affects
the user, but their loved ones too. The ripple effect is enormous. Now-a-days
everyone has a loved one who has struggled. It’s a terrible affliction. The good news
for addicts in NZ is that there is “FREE” help if, and when they’re ready. It makes sense
that there are still addicts and homeless people, because this is a world-wide
problem. But, all of this explained our sense of increased visibility of this issue here in
Gisborne. Perhaps, we (the USA) could learn something from NZ’s remedy to this
situation.

Regardless, my heart goes out to anyone who suffers from addiction. They are real
people just like you and I, not criminals, they don’t need to be shamed or punished,
they need rehabilitation. It’s a life and death choice… get clean or die. I feel terribly
for those who are on the street and have lost everything, (including their ties to their
family). It’s too easy to walk past a homeless person on the street and see them as
“lazy beggars” (which many people do). Yet, unless you’ve walked in their footsteps,
how do you know what led them to their misery or how helpless they may feel to get
out of it. I’m not saying there aren’t con artists out there. I’m certain there are, but
how does anyone truly know one from another? When I give to the homeless I give

food, not money somehow I reconcile that in my mind as the right choice. Everyone
is entitled to their own opinion. This is mine. The quote below sums it up for me, “You
Grow Through What You Go Through”. I’ve had many family members who have
been addicts and each of them have taught me… we’re all just human!

We wandered around town for a few hours, checking out the op-shops for any good
finds. Then, we headed home to have our amazing dinner. The fish was spectacular!
But, the following sunset was even more so. I felt so fortunate to have the life that we
have, yet my heart was a heavy for the folks who would be sleeping on the street
tonight. I went to bed thankful and filled with gratitude.