Sunday – May 12
North Island – Gisborne
HAPPY MOTHER’S DAY!!!

Today is one of my favorite day’s of the whole year… Mother’s Day! I woke
up with such gratefulness of being a mother. Sometimes I think to myself
that I must have done something
In our family, this means “we” do whatever I want without any
complaining. It also means a full day of absolutely no arguing from
anyone of any kind at any time! No rolling of the eyes, no sarcasm, and
no put-downs. It’s heaven! Usually, it entails a long family hike, and lots of
yummy treats! I slept in, wrote some poetry, Jeff made me an omelet, then
we headed out to our hike.
The “Te Kuri Walkway” is located on private farmland on the northern
outskirts of town. The walkway is completely fenced in, so all of the animals
just run loose. It has a well defined track that can be climbed by people
with average to above-average fitness. It’s a 3-hour loop (it took us 3.5
hours because we kept stopping to check stuff out) that can be walked
in either direction (we went counter-clockwise). At just over 4 miles long, it
meanders up and down the countryside. Once heading through the gate,
the walkway initially passes a working farm area filled with a few sheds (not
used as shelter, but for hay). This area was complete with wandering cows,
sheep, goats, and chickens. Since this hike is located on private land, (and

in keeping with Kiwi tradition) hikers are expected to leave all animals
alone, and stay far out of their way. It is owned by the Ball family in honor
of their father Murray. They named it “Te Kuri” which means “The Dog” in
Maori because Murray loved to walk this hike with his dog.
It had rained the night before, so parts of the trail were SERIOUSLY muddy.
We did a lot of slipping and sliding as we made our way up the steeply
wooded ascent. I think Jeff was the only one who didn’t fall. Once we
came out of the woods we continued to head up, up, and up!

I had downloaded a podcast of Brene’ Brown that I wanted everyone to
listen to, but because the hike was a bit challenging at times and we had
distance between us, it was really hard for everyone to hear. I gave up on
my “forced lecture” and the kids promised they would listen anther time.

The majority of the way, we enjoyed beautifully panoramic views of
Gisborne below us. We also had amazing views of the “Poverty Bay Flats”
(also known as the Gisborne Plains). They cover over 50,000 acres around
the lower Waipaoa River out to the bay. The majority of the flats are
covered by alluvial soils, (or fine particles of silt and clay and larger
particles of sand and gravel). This soil, (on the Poverty Bay Flats) is naturally
very fertile, and is some of the very best soil in the country.

Poverty Bay was named by James Cook in October 1769 (at which time it
was known as Teoneroa by the Maori). Although Cook was able to obtain
some herbs to ward off the scurvy his sailors had, he was unable to gain
many of the provisions he and his crew needed there, and for this reason
he gave it the name “Poverty Bay”.

The view from the top at the lookout point was over 1,000 feet up! It was
worthy of a few moments of silence just to sit and soak it all in. This is a
sacred time for all of us… because we’re all trying to use all of our senses
to be present and take mental pictures of all of the sights, sounds, smells,
etc. around us. I think (in these moments) we’re trying to lock it away in
our memories so that we can “go back” someday in our minds.

It was a somewhat clear day, so we could see as far south as Mahia
Peninsula and as far west as Maungapohatu on the eastern fringes of Te
Urewera. It was an interesting lookout point though, because at the very
tippy-top there was a flat mesa about the size of a football field with a little
lake no bigger than the pool at the civic center. It seemed odd to have a
mesa at the top instead of a peak. Anyway, there were about 6 cows just
standing around doing cow things, (eating grass and pooping) who acted
like we weren’t even there. The wind and the temperature were absolutely
perfect. So took in all we could, and then carried on.

As we began our descent, we got lost in the remnants of a semi-coastal
forest that was currently being lumbered. It looked terrible in some places!
The Radiata Pine trees dominated the landscape but there were also a
few Puriri, Kohekohe and Mahoe. After, we re-directed ourselves and
“rediscovered” the path we made our way past the ridges and slopes of
some Kanuka and blackwood trees.

Next, we came to a clearing with some casual grades and bluffs where
we found a bunch of horses, ponies, and a burrow. This area was also
home to a number of forest birds such as “Kereru” (Native Wood Pigeon),
“Ruru” (owl), and our favorite “Piwakawaka” (Fantails). They were singing
such lovely songs, I stopped to listen for a while. I got so caught-up in their
melodies I had fallen behind. I had to run to catch-up to everyone (they
were hungry and ready to be done).
We headed to New World to get supplies for dinner. We were all starving
so everything looked good (always a bad time to go shopping). Oh my!
We had a feast of appetizers. We started off with fresh veggie’s paired with
hummus and creamy spinach dip. While "Charcuterie" is one of my favorite
words to say, it’s also one of my favorite things to eat! So, for our cheese’s
we had: Parmigiano-Reggiano (I love the little crystals in it), Brillat-Savarin
(my favorite- it’s a triple cream - very buttery), slightly warmed Brie with

Blackberry preserves and Honey Chevre. For our meats, we had Italian
Aged Salami cut on the bias, dry cured Prosciutto and some spicy
Chorizo. For our sinful breads, we “carbed” it up with a Bubble-Top
Brioche, a Cracked-Wheat Topknot, a Potato Roll with Caraway, and a
Parmesan Walnut twist. We paired this all with olives, and champagne!
What a treat! While we ate our huge spread of delight, we played cards…
Malice. This game was chosen in honor of Grandma Irene who taught me
to play and Grandma Post who taught Jeff to play. I think they would be
pleased to know that we’re carrying on the tradition. Ari was the big
winner!

After dinner, we couldn’t decide what movie to watch so instead we
played a new game called “Heads Up”. It’s an app on your phone that
costs .99 to get. It was created by Ellen DeGeneres, and it’s just a riot! It
reinvented charades for the app generation. The players team-up in pairs,
then they pick a category. Next, you hold your phone up to your forehead
with the screen facing outward while your partner gives you clues. Then
you can even video record your game each round and watch them later
and laugh at yourselves. We had so much fun!

While we played we had dessert. We got 4 different sweet treats with 4
different mini ice creams so that we would have a large assortment of
tastings. We got a double chocolate-flourless cake, a cream pastry puff,
a vanilla cupcake with caramel filling, and a lemon tart. The ice creams
were chocolate chip, boysenberry, vanilla hazelnut, and peanut butter
fudge. We went to bed stuffed! What a perfect day!

