**North Island – Gisborne**

We woke up and headed across town to go to a little Mom & Pop gym. Since
there is no Snap in Gisborne, this was our only choice. It was very basic! The
equipment was pretty old (at least 40 years) and it was a dark old warehouse,
but it still did the job. It just took me forever to get through my routine. Since Jeff
and the kids finished so much earlier than me, I told them to go ahead and take
the car, and I would just walk from there. It was about 4-miles back, but I figured
I’d see stuff I hadn’t already seen if I took a different route. Finally, I finished so I
started off on my adventure.

I started in a very industrial side of town that looked a little rough around the
edges. Eventually, as I left the warehouse area I passed through several small
neighborhoods that were situated with green spaces between them. Along the
way, I found a twisted old tree that was aching for someone to put a swing in to,
some “Bird of Paradise” flowers, and two sheep at a bus stop. You just never
know what you’ll stumble onto.

I made my way to the coast and found myself at Eastland Port. This the main
shipping port out of Gisborne, and is the most easterly commercial shipping port
in NZ. It’s the second largest log exporter in the country, and proud to be one
of the the highest rated eco-efficient logging ports in the world. The local forestry
industry continues to grow here which provides opportunities (along with winemaking) for employment for the entire region. The railway line runs right through
the city center and connects to the port. Cruise ship's also dock in Eastland Port.
Vacationing tourists from the ships are met by Maori entertainment groups who
arrive by Waka (Maori canoes) to escort passengers to one of the nations top
“Kapa Haka” performances right in a facility adjacent to the docks.

From this side of the bay you can see directly across to the white cliffs called
“Young Nick's Head”. They were named this by Captain James Cook in October
of 1769. Cook promised a reward to the first crewman to sight land. A 12-yearold named Nicholas Young (assistant to the ship's surgeon) was the luky winner
of two gallons of rum. Prior to Cook's arrival, the headland was known to Māori
as Te Kuri o Pāoa, which translates to "The Dog of Pāoa". Maori legends recount
that Pāoa lost his dog in the Poverty Bay area and the dog is still there waiting for
his master to return. It is said if you look towards the white cliffs at dawn they
resemble the outline of a dog in a crouching position. I decided after this that
Gisborne Kiwi’s must be he dog lovers… which made me miss Gus and & Finn
terribly.

I continued my journey by following the railroad tracks and river back through
town. It reminded me in some ways of Cambridge England. The river (there are
three) was just calling for a rowing team to be out slicing it with their paddles.

When I got home, I made spicy pork chops with cheesy rice & beans, a roasted
mixed vegetable blend, and Ari made a Caprice Salad. We were all pretty
hungry, it hit the spot!

After dinner Jeff surprised us with a new card game called “Exploding Kittens”.
This is how you play…The cards are put into a deck, (except for the “Defuse” and
“Exploding Kitten” cards). The deck is shuffled and each player draws 7 cards.
Each player gets one “Defuse” card. Each turn, the player may play as many
cards from their hand as they like (including none) before drawing a card at the
end of each hand. Players are not to tell any other player what cards are in their
hand. Played cards are put into a discard pile. Basically you just follow whatever
the cards say to do. If you get an “Exploding Kitten” card, then you’re instantly
out (unless you have a “Defuse” card). The other cards are; “Nope”, “Attack”,
“Skip”, “Favor”, “Shuffle”, “See the Future”. It sounds kind of silly, but it’s hilarious
because the cards have silly cartoon characters that are quirky and make for a
chuckle every round. We must have played at least 8 or 9 rounds before
heading to bed for the night. We just love to play games together… and I love
the fact that we have so much “quality time” when we play them.