Tuesday – May 14th
North Island – Gisborne

It was a slow morning that morphed into afternoon. Jeff left early to meet with
administrators for his sabbatical research and the kids and I took care of “Back Home
Responsibilities” Ari is still working hard to complete her online classes, Elijah is
continuing with his programming boot camps, and I spent time working on my new
book that I’m in the early phases of writing. The three of us worked until Jeff got home
around 3:00 or so. It was great for me to have unstructured creative time.
Jeff and I decided that since we had been mentally stretched we’d go out for a long
walk and explore the city of Gisborne one last time, because this would be our last
day here.
We wanted to exhaust our search for re-sale/hospice shops so we had quite a few
yet to hit that were on the outskirts of town. We needed to get our steps in anyway
so we set off to check them out.
Apparently, over the past five years the number of second hand retail shops being
run by hospices around the country has increased to over 125 stores. Funds raised
through the shops are used to support the running costs of hospice services, ensuring
hospice care remains free of charge to anyone in NZ who needs it.
We found two more awesome pairs of stylish shoes for Jeff at a Hospice shop that
had two volunteers with a comedic slap stick act. They were hilarious! We made
instant friends! The guy reminded me of John Cleese, and the girl reminded me of
Melissa McCarthy. They explained that the shoes had been donated by a man
named Tapunga Nepe who works at the Tairawhiti Museum of Arts, Culture, and
Heritage. From what they said, Tapunga is a real character himself, so it seemed
fitting that Jeff would inherit his shoes. Aren’t they things of beauty?

Later that night, we did our pre-packing ritual. We had leftovers to finish up what we
could from the kitchen for dinner, and then we watched the sunset over the river.

After the sunset, we played another installment of Heads-Up”. That game just cracks
us up! Elijah was the big winner!!! We decided that since tomorrow was a move day
we’d better head to bed at a reasonable time. We would miss “Gizzy”.

