Wednesday – May 15th
North Island – Napier
Today drove from Gisborne to Napier. It’s about a 4-hour drive southwest on highway
2. It runs along the the coast from Poverty Bay to Hawke’s Bay, and is a very scenic
journey. As we left Gisborne we passed by an avocado farm that had an abundant
amount of Lavender formed into bushes to use as perimeter fencing. It smelled divine!

Next, the landscape became very rocky and hilly. We were ascending to Bartlett’s
Pass. Here’s us at the very top - with our last look at Poverty Bay.

After that, we headed into Morere. A hot new trend in NZ is to visit the rolling hills of
Morere. It’s a different kind of vacation experience. Guests stay in farmhouses and

enjoy the fresh breezes and plenty of peace and quiet. “Agritourism” allows guests to
stay at a working farm or ranch, enjoying all the benefits of the countryside. Morere
farmstays can include everything from collecting eggs from chickens, to brushing
horses, or picking grapes straight off the vine. Morere agritourism is popular with young
families, and it’s easy to see why: Digging in the dirt is every kid’s favorite pastime. This
is one place where it’s not only encouraged, but part of your itinerary. Guests learn
about crops and how the farm works first hand. Being from the Midwest, we have spent
our fair share of time on farms, so that’s not the kind of experience we were looking for.
However, as we drove onward we enjoyed the beauty of the NZ countryside.
We followed highway 2 on the coastal route which provided us great views of the
fabulous beaches in and around the Mahia Peninsula. In recent years this peninsula
has become famous for the addition of “Rocket Lab”. It began launching an Electron
Rockets here in 2017. During regular operations, it is used as a commercial launcher for
small satellites into orbit. Here’s just another example of NZ diversity going from the
basics of farm life to the intricacies of advanced technology.
We passed by Whakaki lagoon. It’s located between state highway 2 and Whakaki
beach, Both the lagoon and and beach are known as excellent fishing areas. Whakaki
has a very small outlet to the ocean, so during high rainfalls the lagoon needs to be
manually let out.

The stunning mountains in the nearby area hold folklore of seven whales being turned
to stone and thus whales never returning home to the sea. They named each
mountain (or whale); Hikunui, Iwitea, Korito, Takitaki, Onepoto, Tahutoria and Tuhara.

Next, we passed through the town Wairoa. It’s located on the northern shore of
Hawke’s Bay at the mouth of the Wairoa River. It is a very “Maori Rich” area.
“Wairoa” itself means "long water", referring to the length of the tranquil river that runs
throughout the town. As we entered the town of Wairoa, we could see the memorable
lighthouse on its main street.

Mohaka River

Wairoa lighthouse

Nowhere???

Then, we came to “Raupunga”, a very small settlement nearby a massive gorge. The
village got running water for the first time in 2017, when a 9 km electric pump system
was built from “Mangawharangi Stream” for $1 million; until that time, many of the 56
households had got water from buckets. The gorge is traversed by the country's highest
railway bridge, called the “Mohaka Viaduct”. This railway viaduct spans the Mohaka
River and hangs about about 1,000 feet tall. The section of the railline between Napier
and Wairoa passes through very difficult country, requiring heavy earthworks, five
tunnels, five high steel viaducts to cross deep gorges, and numerous other bridges

Now… for the funny and frustrating…I caught Elijah sleeping, and gave him a hard
time, so this was his response… look below, LOL!!! We all got a chuckle! But now, the
frustrating…, as we left the Mohaka River Valley, we got stuck behind a huge logging

semi. Since the road was straight up, winding, narrow, and nestled between rocky
ledges and grassy cliffs there was no place to pass. Just as we were rounding a corner
the semi kicked back gravel and rocks and broke the windshield of the low-rider.
Ugggggg!!!!! That would be a bunch of red tape to get fixed!

After that, we entered “Toe Toe” Land, (pronounced toy toy).
Traditionally
the Maori used the Toe Toe leaves to make baskets, kites, mats, wall linings and roof
thatching. It was also used to make containers to cook food in hot springs. The flower
stalks were also useful - as frames for kites, and paneling. The seed heads themselves
were used on fresh wounds to stop bleeding. Other medicinal uses included treatment
for kidney complaints, and burns. Toe Toe is New Zealand's largest native grass, growing
in clumps up to 3m in height. It has a cousin called “Pampas” The difference between
the two plants is quite easily distinguished once you know a few facts. Native Toe Toe
produces pure white flower heads through late spring, Pampas begins flowering late
January and has a purple flower head. Another easy way to identify this weed from
our native grass is when pampas leaves die, they curl up like wood shavings at the base
of the plant.

This is what Pampas looks like. The first time we saw it, we thought it was a joke that
someone had played by spray painting the Toe Toe, but this is just nature.

As we neared Napier, we came to the beautiful “Lake Tutira”. Lake Tutira is home to
an abundance of wildlife and is a popular fishing spot as it is annually filled with
“Tarawera” (sourced trout). Boating, kayaking and swimming is also popular here. For
centuries, Maori seasonally lived by Lake Tutira, where you can still see the remains of
the six “pa” sites to this day.
The word Pā can refer to any Maori village or defensive settlement, but mainly hill forts
with palisades and defensive terraces. Over 5000 sites have been located,
photographed and examined.
In Māori culture, a great pā represented the “Mana” (prestige or power) and strategic
ability. Almost all pā are found on prominent raised ground, especially volcanic hills.
Pā are multipurpose in function in that they also were used to safeguard food and
water storage sites. The five of the six Pa sites here on Lake Tutira are nestled now in
forest. This is the only one that we could see.

Since Lake Tutira has historical relevance and great beauty it was declared a bird
sanctuary in 1929 by William Herbert Guthrie-Smith. This conservationist, was a Scottish

farmer and author who purchased the land to be set aside for the future. There is an
enormous range of birdlife at the lake: grey ducks, black swans, black shags, whiteface herons, fantails – just to name a few. We decided we would come back here to
take a hike once we had settled into Napier.

As we arrived in Napier we were eager to get settled. Elijah and Ari were planning on
sharing a room. However, since the room was so tiny there was no way that they could
both have fit themselves, the twin beds, their suitcases, and their backpacks, and still
be able to walk. So, we had to convert the sun room into a bedroom. Actually, it was
kind of a big deal because the only way to get the bed out of the room was to break
down the frame. Fortunately, we found some tools and were able to do so. Don’t
worry… we put everything back exactly as we found it when we left. Here is a link to
the house; https://homes.co.nz/address/napier/marewa/37-tom-parker-avenue/GaGQr

