**North Island – Napier**

We got up and Jeff and I headed into town to walk around and check it out. Napier
is one of the greatest “Art Deco” capitals in the world. Few places have such a broad
representation of the “Stripped Classical”, “Spanish Mission”, and “Art Deco” styles
within such a confined area, which is why the city has deservedly become known as
such.

EVERYTHING… even all of the houses in the neighborhoods make you feel like you’re
in a “Time trip”. Once we made our way downtown it was even more prevalent.
Street after street, the stunningly iconic buildings have made Napier famous. You see,
in 1931, a massive earthquake rocked Hawke’s Bay for more than three minutes, it
killed 260 people and destroyed the commercial center of the entire city.

Rebuilding began almost immediately, and new buildings reflected the architectural
styles of the times. Napier is often referred to as a 1930’s film set. It celebrates its
heritage with the Art Deco Festival - a stylish celebration of all things 1930’s, including
vintage cars, music, and everyone dresses up in time appropriate fashion.

Napier is also home to many fine wine bars, fabulous restaurants, and cafes. The
boutique shops are plentiful with vintage clothes and accessories. Jeff and I had so
much fun browsing through them to get a feel of what life was like when our
grandparents were in their “prime”. The dresses and hats, the suit coats and
suspenders, were all so intricate and delicately preserved. Everything was very
expensive so we didn’t dare buy anything, but it sure was fun to step back in time.

Another thing that blew our minds were all of the magnificent murals painted on the
walls of more than 50 buildings around the city. They were so brightly colored, unique,
and interesting. They also had many whacky sculptures.

Next, we headed to the “Marine Parade” a scenic and popular walking path that
divides the city and the Pacific Ocean. Napier’s iconic Norfolk Pines, Deco
Soundshell, Tom Parker Fountain and ‘Pania of the Reef’ statue were visual reminders
of the city’s past. The “Foreshore Reserve Gardens” were my favorite!

After that we headed down to the beach. It was a terribly windy day! I mean like
ridiculously windy, so we didn’t last too long down there, but it was gorgeous!

Since we had already walked 6 or so miles to get there and around town, we
decided we’d better start making our way back before sunset. Check out this tree
below they just asphalted all the way around it?

Once we returned, I sat in the garden in the backyard and worked on the blog for a
while until the sun made its way over the horizon. We had bean burritos for dinner
and this is when we started our next obsession… “Kevin Hart”. We began by
watching “Central Intelligence”