**North Island – Mairangi Bay**

We got up early in the morning in order to prepare for our departure. It’s was
five-hour drive Northeast from Rotorua north of Auckland to Mairangi Bay. We
will be in this house with Botbar and Suey for 8 nights. Since we usually have the
low-rider packed as tightly as we do, there was absolutely no way we would
have enough room for Botbar and Suey or their luggage. So, we had to rent a
compact car to haul the extra two people and suitcases. Jeff and I would take
the rental, and Elijah would take the low-rider with Ari, Botbar, and Suey.
The drive went well and remained uneventful until we were in the last 3-mile
stretch… OH NO!!! We got a call from Elijah (who was following us) that he just
got a flat tire…shoot! Jeff and I circled back to find that it was most definitely
flat. Unfortunately, this all went down on a very busy stretch of road. Fortunately,
there just happened to be two empty parking spaces right next to each other.
Unfortunately, it was on a hill. Fortunately, I was able to find a huge boulder to
stick under another wheel to keep the car from rolling away with someone under
it. Unfortunately, we didn’t have roadside service on our policy. Fortunately, we
had a spare and a jack. Unfortunately, the spare was buried under ALL of our
stuff. Fortunately, we had a sidewalk that we could set all of the stuff on to get
to it, and we had the second car for the small stuff. BUT WAIT! It get’s much
better! Unfortunately, when we purchased the “low-rider” the tires had been
rotated so that the ware was put towards the inside and was unseen to the eye.
So we didn’t realize that there was even a problem. The steel radials had worn
all the way through the rubber and they were dangerously poking out which
could have created a major blow-out and at 60-70 mph going down a steep,
narrow, curving road would have been fatal. Fortunately, this didn’t happen…
The moral to this story is that somebody was definitely watching out for us. We
were really, really, really lucky! It was pretty straight forward from there, Elijah
and Jeff changed the tire, and we were back on the road to reach our
destination.

We were to be staying in a 4 bedroom 3 bath house that sits on the top of a cliff
overlooking the North Shore Coastal Walkway. Here is the link;
https://www.airbnb.co.nz/rooms/30374940 It has incredible views of Rangitoto
Island and just a quick walk down the steps took us to a golden sand beach right
on the South Pacific. The house is so big and fancy we’re calling it “The Mansion”.
It’s a beast of a house with 4,300 square feet of space. The walls open up to an
expansive deck that has excellent views of the Coromandel Peninsula. The
mansion has a massive kitchen with butler's pantry. It also has a killer cinema
room with big screen and surround sound and four massage lazy boy chairs for
an all encompassing movie watching experience. The sound system makes you
feel like you’re “in” the movie. The master bedroom takes up the entire 3rd floor
with stellar sea-views and luxuriously appointed bathroom with walk-in shower
and huge bathtub. It also had the largest walk-in wardrobe I’ve ever seen in my
entire life! Ari got the room with two twins on the main floor. Jeff and I, and Elijah
had the two guest rooms on the bottom floor. The laundry room was so big it
could have been another entire room itself.

Once we unloaded, Jeff took the low-rider, and Elijah took the rental car back
to the airport to return it. It was only supposed to be about a 2-hour ordeal, but
because of traffic in Auckland it really turned into a 4-hour ordeal. In the mean
time, we got everyone unpacked, and Suey and I headed to New World to get
groceries. By the time they got back, we had a simple dinner of “every man for
themselves” and then watched some TV and headed to bed. It had been a
busy day, but we were thankful that everyone was safe.