Friday – May 3
North Island – Mairangi Bay

After a good night’s sleep, everyone eventually made their way to the main
level looking for coffee and tea, and breakfast. I woke before sunrise, so I
was able to capture it in a photo. It was a slow start to the day. As morning
turned into afternoon we all were plugged in to get things done with “Back
Home Responsibilities”.
Late afternoon came, and Jeff and I decided to walk into town. I needed
to get my hair done, and we thought we’d check out a few hospice shops.
We had heard that there was a walking trail on the beach side that took
you into town so we thought we’d give it a whirl and do a bit of exploring
along the way. We followed a sidewalk that turned into a footpath. The
footpath took us to a large set of stairs that scaled the cliff along the beach.
Once we got down them, there was a raised concrete sidewalk leading in
both directions. To the south was Campbell’s Bay, to the north is Mairangi
Bay. Both are just seaside suburbs on the outskirts of Auckland. The raised
walkway (about 3-4 ft. high) it connects the two villages during high tide.
It’s called the North Shore Coastal Walkway. The house we’re staying at is
at the dividing line of the two, but is closer to the town center of Mairangi
Bay.
The village sits on the Hauraki Gulf on the south-east-facing peninsula
forming the northern side of Waitemata Harbor. Mairangi Bay is a bustling
little community similar to Elk Rapids. Our house is just a short stroll (roughly
over a mile one way), The Village offers a nice selection of cafes and
restaurants, higher-end boutiques, distinctive little gift stores and a New
World grocery store. They also have an Arts Center that supports its vibrant
community-based art gallery.

The Maori first occupied Auckland’s North Shore centuries ago. The coastal
environment provided an abundance of food that was sourced from the
local streams and the coastal fishing grounds. The fertile land gave them
further sources of food from their harvests.
The coastal strip between Campbell’s Bay (south of Mairangi Bay) was
named by Maori ‘Waipapa Bay’. Translated this means water over wood.
The name referred to quantities of logs and timber thought to be the
remains of a fossilized forest that are revealed at low tide.
In the 1880’s the first European settler (Joseph Murray) arrived in Mairangi
Bay and purchased land from the Maori for pastoral farming. Murray
cleared six to eight acres per year planting corn and wheat. In 1891 he
erected a windmill in what is now Scarboro Terrace. This windmill was used
by incoming ships as a landmark when entering Auckland. Even as we look
out the window of the house we’re staying in today you’ll see huge cargo
ships in holding patterns along the route to be docked in Auckland’s
harbor.
By 1900, the area was becoming popular for holiday homes due to its
coastal location. The sale of Murray’s coastal farm in 1912 resulted in
developers subdividing the land and sections were sold for holiday homes.
There are still debates on who gave the village it’s name. Was it the Maori
or Murray? There are also many conflicting beliefs on the full meaning of
“Mairangi”. Translations include; “from the heavens”, “Sheltered arm” and
“Welcomed sun”.
They only had 2 hospice shops; one was closed and the other didn’t have
any great finds. I was, however able to get my hair done (which was a
relief because I really needed to). Jeff walked back to the house to take
the car in to get a new tire.
After I was done, I walked back to the house. I just couldn’t bring myself to
head back to the house yet… Something was calling to me to explore. At
first, I thought there must have been something in town that I meant to find
or see. It certainly was a cute little touristy sea-side village! Yet, the waves
crashing from across the street at the beach were screaming out to me…
“Come check us out”. I decided to take the elevated walkway back to

the house instead of the residential route. The large ships anchored in
their holding patterns taking turns heading into the harbor seemed like
quite an organizational feat. But, as I looked closer, I could see
something off shore shimmering on the surface. It was an enormous
school of plankton and small baitfish probably pilchards and
anchovies. This is a clue that large Bryde’s Whales could be present
(the Hauraki Gulf is where they make their home). As they surface for
air, they feed on enormous quantities of these little critters. Since
they’re Baleen whales, that’s how they eat. The schools of silvery fish
moving together in a dance of swirling shapes quickly become the
prey of larger creatures in a feeding frenzy known in fishing circles as
as ‘boiling-up’. It’s pretty cool to witness! Surprisingly, you can see the
mass confusion going on even from shore if you look carefully. It
happens pretty quick though, so you have to keep your eyes peeled.
I suppose this is what I was meant to see. So you see… not all that
wander are lost!
Once I arrived back at the house, we packed up and went to the gym for
a workout. After we worked out we headed home, cleaned up, and I
started dinner. I made vegetable stir-fry with fresh monk fish. Ari made her
famous gazpacho for a first course. It was a fancy dinner, so we even lit
candles. Once dinner was over we headed into the AV room and watched
Hobbit III. Of course… we had our fair share of popcorn.

Images

Sunrise

