**North Island – Mairangi Bay**

The day was pretty uneventful… we just took it easy and everyone just
kind of went their own way. Sometimes we’ve just got to do it. I find,
in these times of solitude, silence, and contemplation I am able to “reset” or re-gain my balance, patience, and appreciation. If not, I catch
myself just running from one thing to the next not being present in
anything. Being unproductive is terribly productive for me. Sometimes
I crave it! It’s my remedy for anxiety. I’m not talking about distraction,
where you purposely don’t do something because you want to do
something else (or maybe you’re trying to take your mind off
something). I’m talking about not accomplishing something outwardly
in order to allow space for inward wrestling. If anything, the older I get,
the more I understand this. I hope that this is something Elijah and Ari
will learn sooner than me. To just sit and watch the birds, or the clouds,
or the waves, and let your mind wander to where it needs to go. I fear
with today’s level of distractions in the world, this might be a harder
lesson for them to grasp. One thing I do know though, is that we have
had plenty of opportunities where we have done this together over this
adventure, so I hope it sticks for ALL of us.

Later for dinner Jeff grilled some killer steaks! I sautéed up some onions
and mushrooms, we also fried up some bacon, and crumbled up some
blue cheese to put on top of the steaks. Ari made her famous smashed
cauliflower and she also made mashed potatoes with melted cheese.
Dinner was sinful with all of those toppings! It’s surely one dinner we
won’t forget too soon.

After we stuffed ourselves completely and cleaned-up, we headed to
the AV room to begin the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy because Botbar
and Suey have never seen any of them. We started with “The
Fellowship of the Ring”.

We’re all really enjoying this AV room. It’s totally dark, the surround
sound is insane! It’s awesome because the room is so well insulated we
can be as loud as we want. It’s been a real treat to have these fancy
chairs too! To top it off we of course had popcorn. Although everyone
has shot down cooking it in coconut oil instead of olive oil. Without
Madison’s vote, I have to live with olive (which is actually still great). I
don’t know why anyone would ever eat popcorn out of the
microwave. If you haven’t hand popped it in years, I truly suggest it…
to make it even better sprinkle it with raw/ or coconut sugar on top.
That’s a habit I picked up in England. You’ll think you’ve died and
gone to heaven!