Sunday – May 5
North Island – Mairangi Bay

We got up and headed to the gym. Jeff and I have really enjoyed going
to the gym as a family. It’s great because we all have our own routines,
but we’re all challenging ourselves at the same time. I don’t do any free
weights (just machines) but sometimes I like to mix it up and try something
new. The kids are always eager to teach me something I didn’t know.
And… once we’re all done, it’s like we all accomplished something
together. It’s been a treat for us to work out with Botbar and Suey too.
I’m always pestering Suey about exercise. She’s a walker, especially
since her knee surgery. She doesn’t go fast - or far, but she is pretty
consistent so I try to bug her as often as I can about “getting her steps
in”. This is actually good for me too, because then I have to practice
what I preach.
I usually get between 13,000 to 15,000 steps a day, but if I shoot for 16,000
then I end up ahead of the game. It’s tough back home in the dark of
winter though… usually then I’m lucky to get 12,000 to 13,000. I can’t walk
at home in the winter because it’s too dark by the time I get back from
school. Plus, the woods and state land around our house have unfriendly
critters (bears, coyotes, skunks, and porcupines) so it becomes
challenging. It’s so much easier to get steps in the summer. I usually get
about 15,000 to 16,000 just by default. Regardless, I like to shoot for about
100,000 steps or 40 miles a week if I can.
After we returned home from the gym, Jeff, Elijah and I went to a coffee
shop in “Murray’s Bay” north of “Mairangi Bay” to try to get a faster
internet speed. Yes… this village was named after the European settler

Joseph Murray (the farmer). He must have owned a huge amount of
land. Anyway, the internet speed at the house is so slow that it’s hard to
get anything done. We claimed some outside tables, drank coffee,
watched the passersby between thinking, and listened to the street
performer playing the guitar and singing 1970’s tunes. Elijah goes to a
coffee shop at least 4-5 days a week. So it’s been fun to do it with him.
Jeff and I took a break and checked out a hospice shop. As we were
walking back to the coffee shop I found a key on the ground. I picked it
up and wasn’t sure what to do with it, so I ducked into a store and
handed it to the man at the register. He thanked men then I carried on.
I thought nothing of it, other than I hoped that the person who lost it,
would find their way back to where it was. Once we got done with what
we were trying to accomplish, we headed back to the house. The
internet has been a challenge over the last 4+ months… but, we do the
best we can. Some places we’ve been completely off the grid (which is
kind of wonderful in its own way too).
Since it was Sunday, we decided we wanted to go to church. We
thought it would be interesting to go to a night service. We settled on a
place
called
“City
Impact
Church”
check
it
out
https://cityimpactchurch.com/north-shore/ .
We were greeted at the door, and they showed us around. Everyone we
met was very friendly, warm, and inviting.
The sermon was based on the two following scriptures;
Galatians 5:17
“For the flesh sets its desire against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the
flesh; for these are in opposition to one another”.
Romans 12:2 “And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed
by the renewing of your mind, so that you may see what the will of God
is, and that which is good”.

It was given by a husband and wife team (early 30’s) who are not pastors.
It’s VERY common for a member of the “leadership team” to give the
sermon in NZ. Their message was that when you live your life from the
perspective of the flesh (humanness) you miss the opportunity to live life
fully. But, when you live your life from the perspective of your spirit, you
gain the opportunity to transform and renew your mind. They went on
further to discuss how we all have control of what we think, and if we only
allow “goodness” into our thoughts and actions, then we are surrounded
by positivity. But, as humans in the flesh, it’s often too easy to allow
darkness to find a place in your thoughts or actions. This especially
happens when you may be too tired, depressed, anxious, or too weary
to care. This is a dangerous cycle because if you allow negative
thoughts or people to enter your life, then you actually rob yourself of the
joy and happiness that God wants us to have.
It was nice to have Botbar and Suey there with us to worship. I’m not one
for the huge mega-church experience, but I felt like this one was able to
stir in me a perspective I have forgotten. “City Impact Church” was
founded in 1982. The “Campus” covers 9 acres and contains; a school,
childcare facilities, arts academy, café, a 900 seat chapel, and a 2,500
seat sanctuary. I did however, enjoy the fact that it was at 5:30 pm
instead of rushing around on a Sunday morning to get to church. I’d
much rather have a slow start on Sunday’s - wake up, have tea, write for
3-4 hours, and go for a long walk.
I think Botbar and Suey were a little surprised at the Kiwi style of worship.
We’ve been broken in by now, so it doesn’t seem so uncomfortable for
us. I mean… the waving of the hands all over the place, and the
speaking out from the congregation. I was raised Presbyterian and I’m
now mainly Methodist (mixed with many other faiths). It makes me feel a
little queasy to publically “show” my enthusiasm to my faith. I feel more
comfortable hiding in the sidelines…where I don’t have to be exposed.
It’s hard for Ari too. It seems like the older I get, the more introverted I
have become. I think that most people might see that as a bad thing. I
feel like introverts are very misunderstood by the general consensus of
society. Sure, I can be social, but I thrive on being alone and quiet.
As we were leaving “City Impact Church” I walked out of the main hall
and looked down on the floor… The photo at the top of this page was

what I saw at my feet. Serendipity? The question that kept coming to me
was “What are these keys supposed to open???

Images

