**North Island – Mairangi Bay**

We all woke up pretty early, Jeff caught sunrise off the back deck. -See photo- It
almost looks fake! We had a light breakfast and headed out to Snap to workout.
We wanted to get an early start because we had a full day planned. After our
workout, we changed, grabbed a quick lunch, and headed off for the day’s
adventure. Our plan was to go to “Sheep World” then “The Honey Center” then
“Mahurangi Regional Park”.

With 32 million sheep in a small country of only 5 million people…It seemed fitting
to go check out Sheep World. It was about a 45-minute drive from Auckland.
One would think to themselves… “they’re just sheep, they do nothing but stand
around and eat grass. But, we learned a lot about sheep farming and it gave us
a glimpse into the rural life of a Shepard. We bought our tickets and had about
20-minutes to kill before the next demonstration, so we walked around the
property and met some lively animals.

There were Alpacas, goats, emus, and red deer. We fed a NZ possum (which
was really a very cute little critter, but are a huge hazard to the eco-system here).
I fed an ostrich that looked like it wanted to peck my eyes out. It stood taller than
me, but I accepted the dare from Elijah so after that he wanted more… no thank
you. Then, there were these miniature horses that wanted a scratch on the head
and a nibble of the pellet (we bought the pellets there to feed the animals).

Every time we’d try to walk away they would kick the corral with their hoofs to
call us back for another scratch and bite. These guys were well trained… or
maybe we were? There was also a large eel pond. They had both types of eels
from NZ – the short fin and the long fin. They migrate up streams to find a suitable
habitat. They even can travel over short distances of land to get from one body
of water to the next. After many years (15-30 years for short fins, 25 years for long
fins, and sometimes up to 80 years) they migrate to the Pacific Ocean to breed
and die. Eels are mainly nocturnal. However, Jeff and I saw one when we were
hiking over a foot bridge. The Kiwi’s just love eels. The Maori eat them as a normal
part of their diet. I’ve even seen them at grocery stores.

Next, the demonstration was ready to begin so we gathered in a large barn
where we met a small crowd. We sat on some bleachers and waited. A lady
named Jen (who was very intelligent and knowledgeable introduced her 2
“working” dogs, Duke and Wyatt. We learned about how they are trained to do
different jobs. Then, she took us out to the corral to watch her demonstrate.
Duke, the silent and sneaky one, worked on commands to gather the sheep from
the field and bring down to the corral. Jen did most of his commands by blowing
a whistle in different ways. Then Wyatt, the second dog barked (I mean barked
incessantly) in order to move the sheep from the corral into the barn.

Once in the stalls, the sheep then needed to be sorted according to color. Each
sheep had a dyed patch on it’s head; either pink, blue, or blonde (meaning no
color). The sheep are dyed in order to keep track of how old they are. All sheep
live on a 3-year cycle. So, the color separates the age and development of
incisors;

Lamb - a young sheep (under 12 months), or with no permanent incisor teeth

Hogget - a mid-aged (12-24 months) with no more than two permanent incisors

Mutton - a “wether” (castrated male sheep) or “ewe” (female) with four permanent incisors. (24-36 months)

Elijah and Ari were selected to be the “sorters”. Basically, the sheep would come
down a shoot to where Elijah and Ari were standing. Then the kids held onto a
swinging gate and had to move the gate to the correct lane for each colored
sheep. The thing is, that it goes really fast and it’s easy to get a few in the wrong
lane. Actually, they got every sheep in the right lane the very first time. YAY! It’s
tradition in NZ that if you get a sheep in a row that they don’t belong in, after
they are released back to the highlands then the sorter has to go find the sheep
and return it to the correct flock. But, where they live in the highlands could be
a whole day walk. So, they take the sorting very seriously.

Next, we watched Jen “shorn” a sheep. This was a very fast process as well. It is
a very dangerous job, because most shearers have scars and missing fingers
because the blade is extremely sharp, and you’re trying to hold down a sheep
to keep from moving at the same time. Jen did it in about 3 minutes. Shearers
are paid $2.15 per sheep. It’s a tough job! But, they’re in great demand. Most
shearers travel between ranches on a circuit. ALL sheep MUST be shorn at least
twice a year. Even if they are being raised strictly for meat because if their wool
doesn’t get shaved off, the sheep can develop a rotting bacteria that can kill it.
Shearers are the rock stars of rural NZ.

All NZ sheep are raised strictly on grass (their natural diet) This is a luxury that this
country can afford because of the temperate climate, and its extensive pastures
and hill country. Since the refrigerated meat export business began over 125
years ago, there has been an increasing focus on developing dual-purpose
breeds to produce both quality meat and wool. More recently, with wool prices
low and lamb meat especially high it’s a premium product in overseas markets.
All sheep in NZ are being bred first and foremost for the highest quality of the
meat. Quality meat comes from unstressed animals. Sheep here in NZ have
endless space to roam. They slaughter with the highest ethical standards in the
world. Although after visiting here I wonder what kind of practices are in place
for shepherds in the US.

Finally, the best part!!! Jen released 5 of her smallest lambs to be bottle-feed.
Jeff, Elijah, Ari, and I volunteered to feed them. They were so sweet! We enjoyed
ourselves thoroughly. What a great Day at Sheep World!

Next, we visited a place called the “Honey Center” (spelled Centre here). Jeff
and the kids and I had already been there at the beginning of this adventure,
but it was so interesting and yummy we wanted to take Botbar and Suey there.
Plus, Botbar was in search of some good ice cream and the last time we were
here we had the best honey ice cream in the world. We arrived in the late
afternoon. While there, we sampled the many different varieties of honey and
learned about the 4 different kinds of products that the bees produce; propolis,
comb, royal jelly, and honey. Let me tell you a little bit about them.

Propolis is a sticky gum-like sap substance that bees collect from buds and sap
flowers. Bees hunt for the substances they need which they then combine with
their own enzymes - making propolis. It’s used in the beehive to protect bees
from many viral and bacterial infections. It’s also used as a sealant for unwanted
gaps in the hive, and is spread over rough areas to build panels. With its antiseptic
properties propolis is used to clean out the cells after a bee is born. It also acts as
a barrier protecting the hive from contamination and from external invaders like
mice, and lizards. Researchers found that bees living in hives coated with
propolis have lower bacteria in their bodies. Propolis doesn't just benefit bees.
For thousands of years, people have used it to treat abscesses, heal wounds, and
fight infection. It’s a natural antibiotic that works without destroying the friendly
bacteria the body needs. It boosts immunity, fights infection and softens the
skin. Propolis has beneficial effects on throat and mouth infections, skin disorders
and wounds. I had never heard of this before, so I’ll have to see if they have
some of this back home. (I don’t need anything else to cram in my suitcase after
almost 5 months of being gone).

The Honey Comb is healthy and a simply delicious delicacy. The comb is
produced from beeswax, which in turn is filled with nectar gathered by
honeybees. Presented as the bees created it, Honey Comb is 100 % pure and
natural. Honey has a natural tendency to crystallize on its own, but the quality
and nutritional value of the honey will still remain the same. Honey Comb is
seasonal and as a result, supplies can be limited. It’s produced in the Southern
Hemisphere during Summer (Dec. – Feb.) and the first production of the new
season's product usually becomes available around April. Comb honey contains
propolis along with the beeswax and honey. All of this is fully edible and is in its
rawest form. I remember going to Oryana as a kid (1970’s) and in this big tub,
they used to have chunks of combs that we would eat for free.

Royal Jelly is used to prepare larvae for royal duties, as the queen of the beehive.
It is secreted from worker bees, and fed to all larvae in the colony, regardless of
sex or caste. When worker bees decide to make a new queen (because the
current one is either weakening or dead), they choose some small larvae and
feed them plenty of royal jelly in specially constructed queen cells. This triggers
the development of the necessary queen composition, including the fully
developed ovaries needed to lay eggs. Royal jelly is the rich milky substance
produced by the worker bee to feed the Queen bee. An egg reared to be
queen is supplied this highly nutritious hormone right from the start. It is this royal
diet, which transforms her into a queen and then is fed to her throughout her
entire life. Royal Jelly gives the queen a 42% increase in size and 60% superiority
in weight over the workers in the hive and enables her to outlive worker bees by
40 times. This remarkable growth is the testimony to the nutritional hormones,
nutrients, vitamins and enzymes that revive the function of cells. In humans, these
qualities reduce the effects of stress, possibly promote fast recovery from fatigue and is perfect for high-energy lifestyles. I wanted to get some… but it was terribly
expensive.

Honey is the thick, golden liquid produced by busy bees. Honey is made using
the nectar of flowering plants and saved inside the beehive for eating during
times of food shortage. Bees make honey by extracting nectar (a sugary liquid)
from flowers, using their long tube-shaped tongues. This is then stored in its extra
stomach, where it mixes with enzymes that transform its chemical composition
and pH levels. When the honeybee returns to the hive, it passes the nectar to
another bee through a regurgitation process. This process ends with the partially
digested nectar being deposited into a honeycomb. In essence… Honey is pukybee-spit! I learned that if you add honey to a boiling liquid it literally “kills” off all
of it’s beneficial properties. So, if you add it to your tea or coffee always add
your milk first to cool it down.

Once we done learning about “what” bees produce, the sales associate told us
all about the plight of bees worldwide. Of course we already knew a bit of it,
but it was alarming to learn that last winter, 20% of American bee colonies died,
which followed in an unheard of spike of 43% increase in the cost. Since about
30% of everything we eat requires insect pollination, and the vast majority of it is
done by honey bees. Beekeeping has become more challenging. Queens used
to live and lay eggs vigorously for two or three years. Now, they live for only one
season before “Her Majesty” dies or needs to be replaced. It’s getting more and
more expensive and time-consuming to keep a flourishing. These are dire
concerns for the rest of the world. But, here in NZ the bees continue to thrive. The
reason why? It’s because of geography and conservation. #1 NZ is almost 1,000
miles from Australia so they’re cut off from the rest of the world. #2 The Kiwi’s
have done a magnificent job in conserving the land and protecting it from
pollution and over-population. Recent scientific research shows that NZ propolis
is five times stronger medicinally than propolis produced from the rest of the
world. In fact, everywhere you go… you see hives and there is a constant

hummmm everywhere you go bees. The Kiwi’s really pride themselves on their
quality of honey and use it in cooking more than sugar. Doctors even prescribe
it for patient ailments.
After all of our learning, we proceeded to the cash register to pay for the honey
jars we selected to take home and enjoy. As we headed into the adjoining café
to get the ice cream, they closed… Oh no! We couldn’t believe it! All that build
up… then no dessert! Ugg! What a bummer!
Next, we headed to Mahurangi Regional Park. It straddles the head of
Mahurangi Harbor and is a true paradise complete with a coastal forest. The
sheltered bays, native bush, open pasture, and historic sights all make it a very
special place to be. Māori once lived here in large communities. This park was
the ancestral domain of Ngäti Rongo and there are four fortified pa sites at
Opahi, Cudlip and Te Muri Points and above Sullivan’s Bay. A sea captain, John
Sullivan, married Merehai Kaipuke and settled at Otarawao (Sullivan’s Bay) in the
1870s. Their descendants have farmed the land for nearly a century and farming
still continues on the park today.

More than 100 Māori and European settlers are buried in the Te Muri urupā
(cemetery) in the park. The Urupā (burial ground) was established in the 1860s
alongside two sacred (tapu) Pōhutukawa trees. While we were there we could
hear the songs of the Tui, the Grey Warbler, and Shining Cuckoo. It seems like just
about anywhere we go there is a lovely little North Island Robin or Fantail. They
literally take my breath away. Their songs are so beautiful and they flick and fly
with such joy it’s just contagious!

Areas of coastal forest and regenerating bush are dotted throughout Mahurangi
Regional Park. The best preserved patches of mature coastal forest are on Cudlip
and Te Muri points. The famous scarlet flowering Pohutukawa are spectacular.
While we took in the sights that displayed 360 degree views. We took pictures
and climbed one of these mighty trees. These sacred Pohutukawa trees just
begged us to do so. When Elijah was young we took several “tree climbing
classes” through NMC together. As a child, I spent most of my primary years (1st 7th grade) climbing the trees at Pathfinder. I couldn’t help myself once Elijah
started climbing. The view was even more amazing, and we got a pretty cool
shot of the four of us up there too!

Once we got home, we decided to have appetizers for dinner. It’s always a fun
thing to do when no one wants to cook. Usually we have veggie’s and dip,
various meats and cheeses, olives, crackers, and nuts. We usually pair it with a
nice bottle of wine. After dinner, Jeff and Ari made homemade Caramel
popcorn. It was decadent! And we went to the AV room to watch “Lord of the
Rings” 2 – The Two Towers.