Tuesday – May 7
North Island – Mairangi Bay

Today was a day for everyone to just chill or get things done.
Botbar and Suey sat out on the deck for most of the day watching
the freighters take their turns docking in Auckland’s harbor. The
Hauraki Gulf is a very busy waterway. It opens out onto the Pacific
Ocean which it joins to the north and east. It’s largely protected
from the Pacific by Great Barrier Island, Little Barrier Island, and the
Coromandel Peninsula. This is what makes Auckland so well
protected against all of the northern winds.

Since NZ is cut-off from the rest of the world, (everything that is not
made here has to be shipped in). Auckland is the largest port in
NZ. There are often lines for the large tankers, cargo freighters, and
crate vessels coming in and out to dock. We saw that sometimes
the same ship would be buoyed for an entire day sometime two
before getting clearance to enter. Anyway, it’s interesting to
watch them come and go. The cruise ships are also beautiful as
they enter the Gulf. Many people go from Sydney to Fiji to
Auckland and back as a popular route. This would cover roughly
2,000 nautical miles round trip. It would be fantastic to see!
Jeff worked on organizing his data to begin compiling his research
thus far. Elijah was busy with online “Computer Boot Camp”
programs. Ari is nearly done with her online classes. I worked on
more endorsement research.
Later that night Suey, Ari, and I made cheese and meat
Cannelloni with Caprice Salad. Elijah has had a craving for stuffed
shells for a long time, but I couldn’t find them at the store, so we
settled for Cannelloni. It was sinfully “extra cheesy” delicious! After
dinner, we went into the AV room to watch the last of The Lord of
the Rings trilogy; “The Return of the King”. We ate up the rest of
the homemade caramel corn too! WOW! That was incredible!

