Wednesday – May 8
North Island – Mairangi Bay

We all got up at a reasonable time, and headed to the gym to workout. After
we finished, we went back to the house, changed, and grabbed a quick snack.
We started today’s adventure at the Auckland Museum.

It has an outstanding collection of Māori “Taonga” (treasures). There are over
1,000 artifacts which are displayed in the three main galleries; “He Taonga” Māori
(Māori Court) and “Te Ao Tūroa” (Māori Natural History) and the World War 1 & 2
gallery. All of the Taonga have ancestral representations from all the major tribes
of “Aotearoa" (NZ).

“He Taonga” was established for those whom are Maori descendants with a
tangible link to their ancestral landscapes, their history, and the people. They
embody spiritual powers measured in terms of “Mana”(ancestral authority),
“Tapu” (restriction from everyday being) and “Kōrero” (the associated narratives
from history). These Taonga are viewed as key symbols of tribal identity by Māori
people today.
There are a number of authentic “Hotunui”(meeting houses) that have been
deconstructed and then reconstructed within this gallery. Therefore, they are
authentic and have a great spiritual relevance. There are also great war canoes
used in battles that were carved from a giant Totara and Kauri trees, which are
the pride of the elders. We also saw many other “Waka’s” or canoes. There are
many examples of everyday objects once used for living, hunting, and fishing
which give an accurate representation of Māori life in “Aotearoa”(NZ) before
the arrival of the Pākehā (white men). We were able to go into the actual
houses. A sign asked us to take our shoes off before entering, and to use a
whisper voice. These are holy relics which deserve the utmost respect (especially
from Pākehā). The intricate attention to every detail was stunning. The walls were
decorated with the most elaborate weaving patterns that I’ve ever seen! They
were all created my natural products such as leaves, and stems.

Other masterpieces included a unique “gateway carvings”. These are used in
the entry ways of sacred meeting houses and homes. Totems and gateways are
prevalent in the Maori culture. They had an impressive collection of fiber work
also on display including early “dog-skin” cloaks, elegant headdresses, and
striking feather skirts and wraps. Even their hunting and fishing materials showed
the incredibly high level of artistry making them all the more spectacular.

Personal stories and accounts explain the Wairua (spirituality) of the many tribes.
This gallery, clearly described the Maori people with a rich and diverse history,
but who have also been able to retain their ethnic identity today, despite the
influences of the more rescent centuries.
“Te Ao Tūroa” or the Māori natural history gallery, was developed to teach visitors
about Māori culture and their beliefs about the natural world.
This gallery focused on the “body of knowledge” called “Mātauranga”, which
includes scientific and technological knowledge and expertise. Sight and sound
were used to present a Māori view of the creation of the universe and of the two
primal parents, “Ranginui” (the sky father) and “Papatūānuku” (the earth

mother). This origin theme continued throughout the gallery, (I have mentioned
them several times in other blogs, so you already have knowledge about this).
Here, I saw Ranginui portrayed as a Māori “star map” featuring the Māori names
for the major stars and constellations of the southern sky. Beneath father sky lies
Papatūānuku, represented as a peninsula connecting “Tāmaki Makaurau”
(Auckland). I could walk over this topographical re-creation which was done
with a mosaic of artistic details. It described the creation of this landscape, and
depicts the routes of the first waka’s, and recounts the deeds of the ancestors of
the lands first people.

The story of “Te Ika Māui” or “Māui's Fish”, is an indigenous explanation for the
origin and shape of the two main Islands. Nearby, other exhibits discussed the
the "Polynesian legacy" of the first people. A map showed the origin of the plants
and animals that were transported by the ancestors throughout the South Pacific
to Aotearoa (NZ).
The gallery then spirals outward to focus on the four environmental realms of
importance to Māori: Rongo (the personification of cultivated foods, particularly
“kumara” (similar to sweet potatoes). Haumia, featuring native food plant
species, especially the “bracken fern” and “tī koura” (cabbage tree). Tangaroa,
including fresh water and marine life; and Tāne, the personification of forest,
trees, birds and insects.
To complete this gallery, there was a trio of “Pou” (carvings). It included three
tribes; Ngāti Whātua, Ngāti Pāoa, and Tainui. These serve as a powerful
metaphor emphasizing that in a Māori world view there is no distinction between

"natural" or "cultural" they are interchangeable. They believe in supernatural
beings and believe that their ancestors have always been here, and will always
remain to watch over them.
We all had split-up so that we could cover more of what each of us wanted to
devote our time to. I did not go to the last gallery because it was about WW1
and WW2. Since I will be writing a book from the perspective of two Maori
children, I needed to have the most time with the “identity” of these first people.
Here is a picture of Elijah’s reflection in a shield from an early Dutch explorer.

After we left the museum, we headed right smack to the center of downtown
and parked in the “Sky Tower” parking structure. It was super modern. Each spot
had a green or red light for open spaces. As we drove up to the next floor, the
electronic sign showed how many spaces were available on that floor. Then, as
we took the elevator back down to ground floor, there was a computer that you
could plug your license plate number into and it would show a picture of your
parking space, what the number was, and a picture of you getting out of the
car. We all thought that was pretty swanky! It would have been difficult to lose
your car there eh? Then, we headed down to the Wharf to check out the scene

The wharf is similar to “Fisherman’s Wharf” in San Francisco or “Pier 57-Miners
Landing” in Seattle. It’s a downtown destination that is recognized for its
outstanding design and architecture, its natural environmental quality, its hip
and trendy public spaces, its many recreational opportunities, its numerous
facilities and events; and its dedication to teaching cultural heritage and history.
This fun and vibrant waterfront is made up of three key areas;
The Wynyard Quarter
There are steady programs and numerous events that go on here. While we
walked through this area we saw them drudging the harbor to make it wider for
the upcoming “America’s Cup” Sailing Competition in 2020. This revitalized
waterfront precinct is brimming with the energy from the locals and visitors of all
ages. The Auckland Fish Market has a wide range of the very freshest seafood
straight off the boat. Since we had a long day ahead yet, we decided it wouldn’t
be too smart to haul fish around the rest of the day, so we passed.

The Viaduct
With over 30 bars and restaurants to choose from “Holy Cow”, how could anyone
go wrong! We’d have to check this out again later (once we return to Auckland
as our last stop before heading home). Viaduct Harbor is definitely a busy place
to dine or just sit around, relax, and people watch.

The Queens Wharf
The wharf is a popular space throughout the year. It’s one of the best spots in
the city to hang out right at the water’s edge. To sweeten the deal, they have
bright summer umbrellas and loungers, converted storage crates to relax in while
you get comfortable and soak up the atmosphere of it all. It hosted many
“Interactive Art Displays” that we enjoyed as we traversed through this part of
the wharf. Some played music, lit up, spoke to us, or moved to enhance the
artistic expression they were intended to do. I love random art, so this was pretty
damn cool too!

After we had wandered around long enough, we headed back to where Botbar
was waiting, and then we all got ice cream at a fancy ice cream shop… WOW!
It was awesome!

Finally, we headed to the “Sky Tower”, the most famous building in all of NZ. The
Sky Tower shows support for a range of organizations/charities every night, so the
lights are constantly changing to honor the current events. The Sky Tower stands
1,076 feet tall (60 stories) and is an icon of Auckland's sky line for 20 years. It is
exciting hub for adrenaline activities such as bungy jumping, base jumping, and

repelling. It has superb world-class dining, and breath-taking views. At the
bottom of the Sky Tower is SkyCity (Auckland’s premier entertainment complex).
It has a 5-star hotel, over 7 bars and restaurants, a 700 seat theatre, and a Casino.
It has panoramic 360˚ views which rotates to reveal views from every direction of
downtown Auckland. From the top we could spot; key landmarks, volcanoes,
and other historical locations within the greater Auckland area. We plan to enjoy
a few of the bars/restaurants upon our return to Auckland for Elijah’s 20th Birthday.
It was so awesome because we arrived just in time for sunset. The views were
spectacular. It really gave us the opportunity to get a clearer perspective on
the topography of NZ’s largest city. We could see the two harbors, all of the
major roads, parks, and the wharfs.

Later that night, we had hamburgers for dinner. This was Botbar and Suey’s last
night with us, so we enjoyed what remaining time we had together. We realized
we were out of popcorn, so Jeff and I walked in to town to get more. It would
have been “uncivilized” for us to be popcorn free on the big occasion of their
last night. Plus, we couldn’t break tradition at this point.

